1. 
	
2. 

3. 


4. 

5. 

6. 

7.   
	
8. 40. Those who were best able to provide themselves with the means of security against their neighbours, being thus in possession of the surest guarantee, passed the most agreeable life in each other’s society; and their enjoyment of the fullest intimacy was such that, if one of them died before his time, the survivors did not lament his death as if it called for commiseration. 
9. 39. He who best knew how to meet fear of external foes made into one family all the creatures he could; and those he could not, he at any rate did not treat as aliens; and where he found even this impossible, he avoided all intercourse, and, so far as was expedient, kept them at a distance. 
10.   
	
11. 38. Where without any change in circumstances the conventional laws, when judged by their consequences, were seen not to correspond with the notion of justice, such laws were not really just; but wherever the laws have ceased to be expedient in consequence of a change in circumstances, in that case the laws were for the time being just when they were expedient for the mutual intercourse of the citizens, and subsequently ceased to be just when they ceased to be expedient. 
12.   
	
13. 37. Among the things accounted just by conventional law, whatever in the needs of mutual intercourse is attested to be expedient, is thereby stamped as just, whether or not it be the same for all; and in case any law is made and does not prove suitable to the expediencies of mutual intercourse, then this is 
14.   
	
15. 36. Taken generally, justice is the same for all, to wit, something found expedient in mutual intercourse; but in its application to particular cases of locality or conditions of whatever kind, it varies under different circumstances. 
16. 35. It is impossible for the man who secretly violates any article of the social compact to feel confident that he will remain undiscovered, even if he has already escaped ten thousand times; for right on to the end of his life he is never sure he will not be detected. 
17. 34. Injustice is not in itself an evil, but only in its consequence, viz. the terror which is excited by apprehension that those appointed to punish such offences will discover the injustice. 
18.   
	
19. 33. There never was an absolute justice, but only an agreement made in reciprocal intercourse in whatever localities now and again from time to time, providing against the infliction or suffering of harm. 
20. 32. Those animals which are incapable of making covenants with one another, to the end that they may neither inflict nor suffer harm, are without either justice or injustice. And those tribes which either could not or would not form mutual covenants to the same end are in like case. 
21. 31. Natural justice is a symbol or expression of 
22.   
	
23. 30. Those natural desires which entail no pain when not gratified, though their objects are vehemently pursued, are also due to illusory opinion; and when they are not got rid of, it is not because of their own nature, but because of the man’s illusory opinion. 
24. 29. Of our desires some are natural and necessary; others are natural, but not necessary; others, again, are neither natural nor necessary, but are due to illusory opinion. [Epicurus regards as natural and necessary desires which bring relief from pain, as 
25. e.g.
26. e.g.
27.   
	
28. 28. The same conviction which inspires confidence that nothing we have to fear is eternal or even of long duration, also enables us to see that even in our limited conditions of life nothing enhances our security so much as friendship. 
29. 27. Of all the means which are procured by wisdom to ensure happiness throughout the whole of life, by far the most important is the acquisition of friends. 
30. 26. All such desires as lead to no pain when they remain ungratified are unnecessary, and the longing is easily got rid of, when the thing desired is difficult to procure or when the desires seem likely to produce harm. 
31. 25. If you do not on every separate occasion refer each of your actions to the end prescribed by nature, but instead of this in the act of choice or avoidance 
32.   
	
33. 24. If you reject absolutely any single sensation without stopping to discriminate with respect to that which awaits confirmation between matter of opinion and that which is already present, whether in sensation or in feelings or in any presentative perception of the mind, you will throw into confusion even the rest of your sensations by your groundless belief and so you will be rejecting the standard of truth altogether. If in your ideas based upon opinion you hastily affirm as true all that awaits confirmation as well as that which does not, you will not escape error, as you will be maintaining complete ambiguity whenever it is a case of judging between right and wrong opinion. 
34.   
	
35. 23. If you fight against all your sensations, you will have no standard to which to refer, and thus no means of judging even those judgements which you pronounce false. 
36. 22. We must take into account as the end all that really exists and all clear evidence of sense to which we refer our opinions; for otherwise everything will be full of uncertainty and confusion. 
37. 21. He who understands the limits of life knows how easy it is to procure enough to remove the pain of want and make the whole of life complete and perfect. Hence he has no longer any need of things which are not to be won save by labour and conflict. 
38.   
	
39. 20. The flesh receives as unlimited the limits of pleasure; and to provide it requires unlimited time. But the mind, grasping in thought what the end and limit of the flesh is, and banishing the terrors of futurity, procures a complete and perfect life, and has no longer any need of unlimited time. Nevertheless it does not shun pleasure, and even in the 
40. 19. Unlimited time and limited time afford an equal amount of pleasure, if we measure the limits of that pleasure by reason. 
41.   

42. 18. Pleasure in the flesh admits no increase when once the pain of want has been removed; after that it only admits of variation. The limit of pleasure in the mind, however, is reached when we reflect on the things themselves and their congeners which cause the mind the greatest alarms. 
43. 17. The just man enjoys the greatest peace of mind, while the unjust is full of the utmost disquietude. 
44. 16. Fortune but seldom interferes with the wise man; his greatest and highest interests have been, are, and will be, directed by reason throughout the course of his life. 
45. 15. Nature’s wealth at once has its bounds and is easy to procure; but the wealth of vain fancies recedes to an infinite distance. 
46.   

47. 14. When tolerable security against our fellow-men is attained, then on a basis of power sufficient to afford support
48. Or, if 
49. power to expel.
50. cf.
51. ἐξορις τικῇ
52. 13. There would be no advantage in providing security against our fellow-men, so long as we were alarmed by occurrences over our heads or beneath the earth or in general by whatever happens in the boundless universe. 
53. 12. It would be impossible to banish fear on matters of the highest importance, if a man did not know the nature of the whole universe, but lived in dread of what the legends tell us. Hence without the study of nature there was no enjoyment of unmixed pleasures. 
54.   

55. 11. If we had never been molested by alarms at celestial and atmospheric phenomena, nor by the misgiving that death somehow affects us, nor by neglect of the proper limits of pains and desires, we should have had no need to study natural science. 
56. 10. If the objects which are productive of pleasures to profligate persons really freed them from fears of the mind,—the fears, I mean, inspired by celestial and atmospheric phenomena, the fear of death, the fear of pain; if, further, they taught them to limit their desires, we should never have any fault to find with such persons, for they would then be filled with pleasures to overflowing on all sides and would be exempt from all pain, whether of body or mind, that is, from all evil. 
57. 9. If all pleasure had been capable of accumulation,—if this had gone on not only by recurrence in time, but all over the frame or, at any rate, over the principal parts of man’s nature, there would never have been any difference between one pleasure and another, as in fact there is. 
58.   

59. 8. No pleasure is in itself evil, but the things which produce certain pleasures entail annoyances many times greater than the pleasures themselves. 
60. 7. Some men have sought to become famous and renowned, thinking that thus they would make themselves secure against their fellow-men. If, then, the life of such persons really was secure, they attained natural good; if, however, it was insecure, they have not attained the end which by nature’s own prompting they originally sought. 
61. 6. In order to obtain security from other men any means whatsoever of procuring this was a natural good.
62. Usener, followed by Bignone, regards 
63. ἐξ ὧν.
64. ἀρχῆς καὶ βασιλείας
65.   

66. 5. It is impossible to live a pleasant life without living wisely and well and justly, and it is impossible to live wisely and well and justly without living pleasantly. Whenever any one of these is lacking, when, for instance, the man is not able to live wisely, though he lives well and justly, it is impossible for him to live a pleasant life. 
67. 4. Continuous pain does not last long in the flesh; on the contrary, pain, if extreme, is present a very short time, and even that degree of pain which barely outweighs pleasure in the flesh does not last for many days together. Illnesses of long duration even permit of an excess of pleasure over pain in the flesh. 
68.   

69. 3. The magnitude of pleasure reaches its limit in the removal of all pain. When pleasure is present, so long as it is uninterrupted, there is no pain either of body or of mind or of both together. 
70. 2. Death is nothing to us; for the body, when it has been resolved into its elements, has no feeling, and that which has no feeling is nothing to us. 
71. 1. A blessed and eternal being has no trouble himself and brings no trouble upon any other being; hence he is exempt from movements of anger and partiality, for every such movement implies weakness 
72. [
73. Elsewhere he says that the gods are discernible by reason alone, some being numerically distinct, while others 
74.   
	
75. Come, then, let me set the seal, so to say, on my entire work as well as on this philosopher’s life by citing his Sovran Maxims,
76. This collection of forty of the most important articles of faith in the Epicurean creed was famous in antiquity. It consists of extracts from the voluminous writings of Epicurus, and may have been put together by a faithful disciple. On the other hand, Epicurus laid great stress (§§35, 36) on epitomes of his doctrine being committed to memory; so that his passion for personal direction and supervision of the studies of his pupils may have induced him to furnish them with such an indispensable catechism.
77. And we choose the virtues too on account of pleasure and not for their own sake, as we take medicine for the sake of health. So too in the twentieth book of his 
78. i.e.
79. i.e.
80. sine qua non
81. διαγωγή
82. ἀγωγή
83. Epilecta
84.   

85. He further disagrees with the Cyrenaics in that they hold that pains of body are worse than mental pains; at all events evil-doers are made to suffer bodily punishment; whereas Epicurus holds the pains of the mind to be the worse; at any rate the flesh endures the storms of the present alone, the mind those of the past and future as well as the present. In this way also he holds mental pleasures to be 
86. And bites and yells, and rock to rock resounds, 

87. Soph. 
88. δάκνων.
89. βοῶν
90. Trach.
91.   
	
92. He differs from the Cyrenaics
93. Peace of mind and freedom from pain are pleasures which imply a state of rest; joy and delight are seen to consist in motion and activity.
94. On Choice
95. Thus pleasure being conceived both as that species which consists in motion and that which is a state of rest.
96. Timocrates
97. Epilecta
98. On Human Life
99. On the Ethical End
100. On Choice and Avoidance
101. Next come excerpts dealing with the difference between Epicurean and Cyrenaic ethics.
102.   

103. Such are his views on life and conduct; and he has discoursed upon them at greater length elsewhere.
104. Elsewhere he rejects the whole of divination,
105. No means of predicting the future really exists, and if it did, we must regard what happens according to it as nothing to us.
106. This short note on divination is clumsily inserted between the last words of the epistle and the expositor’s natural reference to other works of Epicurus treating of ethics; Usener conjectures that it may have come from a Scholium attached to the epistle.
107. Exercise thyself in these and kindred precepts day and night, both by thyself and with him who is like unto thee; then never, either in waking or in dream, wilt thou be disturbed, but wilt live as a god among men. For man loses all semblance of mortality by living in the midst of immortal blessings.
108. It is better, in short, that what is well judged in action should not owe its successful issue to the aid of chance.
109.   

110. It were better, indeed, to accept the legends of the gods than to bow beneath that yoke of destiny which the natural philosophers have imposed. The one holds out some faint hope that we may escape if we honour the gods, while the necessity of the naturalists is deaf to all entreaties. Nor does he hold chance to be a god, as the world in general does, for in the acts of a god there is no disorder; nor to be a cause, though an uncertain one, for he believes that no good or evil is dispensed by chance to men so as to make life blessed, though it supplies the starting-point of great good and great evil. He believes that the misfortune of the wise is better than the prosperity of the fool. 
111.   

112. Who, then, is superior in thy judgement to such a man? He holds a holy belief concerning the gods, 
113.   

114. It is not an unbroken succession of drinking-bouts and of revelry, not sexual love, not the enjoyment of the fish and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul. Of all this the beginning and the greatest good is prudence. Wherefore prudence is a more precious thing even than philosophy; from it spring all the other virtues, for it teaches that we cannot lead a life of pleasure which is not also a life of prudence, honour, and justice; nor lead a life of prudence, honour, and justice, which is not also a life of pleasure. For the virtues have grown into one with a pleasant life, and a pleasant life is inseparable from them.
115.   

116. When we say, then, that pleasure is the end and aim, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do by some through ignorance, prejudice, or wilful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. 
117. while bread and water confer the highest possible pleasure when they are brought to hungry lips. To habituate one’s self, therefore, to simple and inexpensive diet supplies all that is needful for health, and enables a man to meet the necessary requirements of life without shrinking, and it places us in a better condition when we approach at intervals a costly fare and renders us fearless of fortune.
118.   

119. It is, however, by measuring one against another, and by looking at the conveniences and inconveniences, that all these matters must be judged. Sometimes we treat the good as an evil, and the evil, on the contrary, as a good. Again, we regard independence of outward things as a great good, not so as in all cases to use little, but so as to be contented with little if we have not much, being honestly persuaded that they have the sweetest enjoyment of luxury who stand least in need of it, and that whatever is natural is easily procured and only the vain and worthless hard to win. Plain fare 
120.   
	
121. Pleasure is our first and kindred good. It is the starting-point of every choice and of every aversion, and to it we come back, inasmuch as we make feeling the rule by which to judge of every good thing. And since pleasure is our first and native good, for that reason we do not choose every pleasure whatsoever, but ofttimes pass over many pleasures when a greater annoyance ensues from them. And ofttimes we consider pains superior to pleasures when submission to the pains for a long time brings us as a consequence a greater pleasure. While therefore all pleasure because it is naturally akin to us is good, not all pleasure is choiceworthy, just as all pain is an evil and yet not all pain is to be shunned.
122.   
	
123. He who has a clear and certain understanding of these things will direct every preference and aversion toward securing health of body and tranquillity of mind, seeing that this is the sum and end of a blessed life. For the end of all our actions is to be free from pain and fear, and, when once we 
124.   

125. We must also reflect that of desires some are natural, others are groundless; and that of the natural some are necessary as well as natural, and some natural only. And of the necessary desires some are necessary if we are to be happy, some if the body is to be rid of uneasiness, some if we are even to live. 
126. We must remember that the future is neither wholly ours nor wholly not ours, so that neither must we count upon it as quite certain to come nor despair of it as quite certain not to come.
127. For if he truly believes this, why does he not depart from life? It were easy for him to do so, if once he were firmly convinced. If he speaks only in mockery, his words are foolishness, for those who hear believe him not.
128.   

129. The wise man does not deprecate life nor does he fear the cessation 
130. Theognis 425, 427.
131.   

132. For life has no terrors for him who has thoroughly apprehended that there are no terrors for him in ceasing to live. Foolish, therefore, is the man who says that he fears death, not because it will pain when it comes, but because it pains in the prospect. Whatsoever causes no annoyance when it is present, causes only a groundless pain in the expectation. Death, therefore, the most awful of evils, is nothing to us, seeing that, when we are, death is not come, and, when death is come, we are not. It is nothing, then, either to the living or to the dead, for with the living it is not and the dead exist no longer.
133. The striking resemblance to this passage of ps.-Plat. 
134. ib.
135. sq.
136. Etude crit. du dialogue ps.-plat. l’Axiochos
137. Axiochus
138.   

139. Accustom thyself to believe that death is nothing to us, for good and evil imply sentience, and death is the privation of all sentience; therefore a right understanding that death is nothing to us makes the mortality of life enjoyable, not by adding to life an illimitable time, but by taking away the yearning after immortality. 
140. For the utterances of the multitude about the gods are not true preconceptions but false assumptions; hence it is that the greatest evils happen to the wicked and the greatest blessings happen to the good from the hand of the gods, seeing that they are always favourable to their own good qualities and take pleasure in men like unto themselves, but reject as alien whatever is not of their kind.
141.   

142. Those things which without ceasing I have declared unto thee, those do, and exercise thyself therein, holding them to be the elements of right life. First believe that God is a living being immortal and blessed, according to the notion of a god indicated by the common sense of mankind; and so believing, thou shalt not affirm of him aught that is foreign to his immortality or that agrees not with blessedness, but shalt believe about him whatever may uphold both his blessedness and his immortality. For verily there are gods, and the knowledge of them is manifest; but they are not such as the multitude believe, seeing that men do not steadfastly maintain the notions they form respecting them. Not the man who denies the gods worshipped by the multitude, but he who affirms of the gods what the multitude 
143.   

144. Let no one be slow to seek wisdom when he is young nor weary in the search thereof when he is grown old. For no age is too early or too late for the health of the soul. And to say that the season for studying philosophy has not yet come, or that it is past and gone, is like saying that the season for happiness is not yet or that it is now no more. Therefore, both old and young ought to seek wisdom, the former in order that, as age comes over him, he may be young in good things because of the grace of what has been, and the latter in order that, while he is young, he may at the same time be old, because he has no fear of the things which are to come. So we must exercise ourselves in the things which bring happiness, since, if that be present, we have everything, and, if that be absent, all our actions are directed toward attaining it.
145.   

146. Epicurus to Menoeceus, greeting.
147. We must now proceed to his letter. 
148. Two sorts of happiness can be conceived, the one the highest possible, such as the gods enjoy, which cannot be augmented, the other admitting addition and subtraction of pleasures. 
149.   

150. The school holds that sins are not all equal; that health is in some cases a good, in others a thing indifferent; that courage is not a natural gift but comes from calculation of expediency; and that friendship is prompted by our needs. One of the friends, however, must make the first advances (just as we have to cast seed into the earth), but it is maintained by a partnership in the enjoyment of life’s pleasures. 
151. The transposition of this paragraph is due to Bignone (p. 214, notes 2, 4).
152. He will leave written words behind him, but will not compose panegyric. He will have regard to his property and to the future. 
153. Περὶ εὐσεβείας
154. Cf.
155.   

156. Nor, again, will the wise man marry and rear a family: so Epicurus says in the 
157. Epilecta.
158. supra
159. i.e.
160. On Life
161. On Life
162. Symposium.
163. De Natura.
164. Problems
165.   

166. Even on the rack the wise man is happy. He alone will feel gratitude towards friends, present and absent alike, and show it by word and deed. When on the rack, however, he will give vent to cries and groans. As regards women he will submit to the restrictions imposed by the law, as Diogenes says in his epitome of Epicurus’ ethical doctrines. Nor will he punish his servants; rather he will pity them and make allowance on occasion for those who are of good character. The Epicureans do not suffer the wise man to fall in love; nor will he trouble himself about funeral rites; according to them love does not come by divine inspiration: so Diogenes in his twelfth book. The wise man will not make fine speeches. No one was ever the better for sexual indulgence, and it is well if he be not the worse. 
167.   

168. There are three motives to injurious acts among men—hatred, envy, and contempt; and these the wise man overcomes by reason. Moreover, he who has once become wise never more assumes the opposite habit, not even in semblance, if he can help it. He will be more susceptible of emotion than other men: that will be no hindrance to his wisdom. However, not every bodily constitution nor every nationality would permit a man to become wise. 
169. But as to the conduct of life, what we ought to avoid and what to choose, he writes as follows.
170. Between the letter to Pythocles and that to Menoeceus come excerpts (§§ 117-120) dealing with the wise man as conceived by Epicurus, to which are added (§§ 120, 121) some ethical tenets.
171. Such are his views on celestial phenomena. 
172. 

173. All this, Pythocles, you should keep in mind; for then you will escape a long way from myth, and you will be able to view in their connexion the instances which are similar to these. But above all give yourself up to the study of first principles and of infinity and of kindred subjects, and further of the standards and of the feelings and of the end for which we choose between them. For to study these subjects together will easily enable you to understand the causes of the particular phenomena. And those who have not fully accepted this, in proportion as they have not done so, will be ill acquainted with these very subjects, nor have they secured the end for which they ought to be studied.
174. For such folly as this would not possess the most ordinary being if ever so little enlightened, much less one who enjoys perfect felicity.
175.  

176. The fact that the weather is sometimes foretold from the behaviour of certain animals is a mere coincidence in time.
177. On Nature.
178. Cf.
179. or it may be due to the meeting of atoms capable of generating fire, which accord so well as to produce this result, and their subsequent motion wherever the impulse which brought them together at first leads them; or it may be that wind collects in certain dense mist-like masses and, since it is imprisoned, ignites and then bursts forth upon whatever is round about it, and is carried to that place to which its motion impels it. And there are other ways in which this can be brought about without recourse to myths.
180.  

181. Falling stars, as they are called, may in some cases be due to the mutual friction of the stars themselves, in other cases to the expulsion of certain parts when that mixture of fire and air takes place which was mentioned when we were discussing lightning; 
182. That certain stars are seen to be left behind by others may be because they travel more slowly, though they go the same round as the others; or it may be that they are drawn back by the same whirling motion and move in the opposite direction; or again it may be that some travel over a larger and others over a smaller space in making the same revolution. But to lay down as assured a single explanation of these phenomena is worthy of those who seek to dazzle the multitude with marvels. 
183.   

184. may be accounted for by saying that they originally moved in a circle and were constrained, some of them to be whirled round with the same uniform rotation and others with a whirling motion which varied; but it may also be that according to the diversity of the regions traversed in some places there are uniform tracts of air, forcing them forward in one direction and burning uniformly, in others these tracts present such irregularities as cause the motions observed. To assign a single cause for these effects when the facts suggest several causes is madness and a strange inconsistency; yet it is done by adherents of rash astronomy, who assign meaningless  
185.  

186. Certain stars may revolve without setting not only for the reason alleged by some, because this is the part of the world round which, itself unmoved, the rest revolves, but it may also be because a circular eddy of air surrounds this part, which prevents them from travelling out of sight like other stars; or because there is a dearth of necessary fuel farther on, while there is abundance in that part where they are seen to be. Moreover there are several other ways in which this might be brought about, as may be seen by anyone capable of reasoning in accordance with the facts. The wanderings of certain stars, if such wandering is their actual motion, and the regular movement of certain other stars,
187.   

188. Comets arise either because fire is nourished in 
189. And this happens at certain parts either because a current has forced its way in from without or because the heat has gained possession of certain passages in order to effect this. 
190.   

191. A halo round the moon arises because the air on all sides extends to the moon; or because it equably raises upwards the currents from the moon so high as to impress a circle upon the cloudy mass and not to separate it altogether; or because it raises the air which immediately surrounds the moon symmetrically from all sides up to a circumference round her and there forms a thick ring. 
192. The circular shape which it assumes is due to the fact that the distance of every point is perceived by our sight to be equal; or it may be because, the atoms in the air or in the clouds and deriving from the sun having been thus united, the aggregate of them presents a sort of roundness.
193.   

194. The rainbow arises when the sun shines upon humid air; or again by a certain peculiar blending of light with air, which will cause either all the distinctive qualities of these colours or else some of them belonging to a single kind, and from the reflection of this light the air all around will be coloured as we see it to be, as the sun shines upon its parts. 
195. Ice is formed by the expulsion from the water of the circular, and the compression of the scalene and acute-angled atoms contained in it; further by the accretion of such atoms from without, which being driven together cause the water to solidify after the expulsion of a certain number of round atoms.
196. And the formation of hoar-frost is not different from that of dew, certain particles of such a nature becoming in some such way congealed owing to a certain condition of cold air.
197.   

198. Dew is formed when such particles as are capable of producing this sort of moisture meet each other from the air: again by their rising from moist and damp places, the sort of place where dew is chiefly formed, and their subsequent coalescence, so as to create moisture and fall downwards, just as in several cases something similar is observed to take place under our eyes. 
199. And when frozen clouds rub against each other, this accumulation of snow might be thrown off. And there are other ways in which snow might be formed.
200.   

201. Snow may be formed when a fine rain issues from the clouds because the pores are symmetrical and because of the continuous and violent pressure of the winds upon clouds which are suitable; and then this rain has been frozen on its way because of some violent change to coldness in the regions below the clouds. Or again, by congelation in clouds which have uniform density a fall of snow might occur through the clouds which contain moisture being densely packed in close proximity to each other; and these clouds produce a sort of compression and cause hail, and this happens mostly in spring. 
202. The round 
203.   

204. Hail is caused by the firmer congelation and complete transformation, and subsequent distribution into drops, of certain particles resembling wind: also by the slighter congelation of certain particles of moisture and the vicinity of certain particles of wind which at one and the same time forces them together and makes them burst, so that they become frozen in parts and in the whole mass. 
205. Winds arise from time to time when foreign matter continually and gradually finds its way into the air; also through the gathering of great store of water. The rest of the winds arise when a few of them fall into the many hollows and they are thus divided and multiplied.
206. And there are many other causes to which these oscillations of the earth may be due.
207.   

208. Earthquakes may be due to the imprisonment of wind underground, and to its being interspersed with small masses of earth and then set in continuous motion, thus causing the earth to tremble. And the earth either takes in this wind from without or from the falling in of foundations, when undermined, into subterranean caverns, thus raising a wind in the imprisoned air. Or they may be due to the propagation of movement arising from the fall of many foundations and to its being again checked when it encounters the more solid resistance of earth. 
209. And when they descend upon land, they cause what are called tornadoes, in accordance with the various ways in which they are produced through the force of the wind; and when let down upon the sea, they cause waterspouts.
210.   

211. Fiery whirlwinds are due to the descent of a cloud forced downwards like a pillar by the wind in full force and carried by a gale round and round, while at the same time the outside wind gives the cloud a lateral thrust; or it may be due to a change of the wind which veers to all points of the compass as a current of air from above helps to force it to move; or it may be that a strong eddy of winds has been 
212. And there are several other ways in which thunderbolts may possibly be produced. Exclusion of myth is the sole condition necessary; and it will be excluded, if one properly attends to the facts and hence draws inferences to interpret what is obscure.
213.   

214. exactly as when persons who are striking blows are observed from a distance.
215. [generally by some high mountain where thunderbolts mostly fall]
216. e.g.
217.   

218. or, when the clouds are rent asunder by winds, and the atoms which generate fire are expelled, these likewise cause lightning to appear. And it may easily be seen that its occurrence is possible in many other ways, so long as we hold fast to facts and take a general view of what is analogous to them. Lightning precedes thunder, when the clouds are constituted as mentioned above and the configuration which produces lightning is expelled at the moment when the wind falls upon the cloud, and 
219.   

220. As in the whole survey, so in this particular point, the facts invite us to give a plurality of explanations. Lightnings too happen in a variety of ways. For when the clouds rub against each other and collide, that collocation of atoms which is the cause of fire generates lightning; or it may be due to the flashing forth from the clouds, by reason of winds, of particles capable of producing this brightness; or else it is squeezed out of the clouds when they have been condensed either by their own action or by that of the winds; or again, the light diffused from the stars may be enclosed in the clouds, then driven about by their motion and by that of the winds, and finally make its escape from the clouds; or light of the finest texture may be filtered through the clouds (whereby the clouds may be set on fire and thunder produced), and the motion of this light may make lightning; or it may arise from the combustion of wind brought about by the violence of its motion and the intensity of its compression; 
221.   

222. or again may be caused by exhalations of moisture rising
223. Cf.
224. Lucr. vi. 519.
225.   

226. Clouds may form and gather either because the air is condensed under the pressure of winds, or because atoms which hold together and are suitable to produce this result become mutually entangled, or because currents collect from the earth and the waters; and there are several other ways in which it is not impossible for the aggregations of such bodies into clouds to be brought about. And that being so, rain may be produced from them sometimes by their compression, sometimes by their transformation; 
227. and it is not easy to see in which cases the effect is due to one cause or to the other.
228.   

229. The signs in the sky which betoken the weather may be due to mere coincidence of the seasons, as is the case with signs from animals seen on earth, or they may be caused by changes and alterations in the air. For neither the one explanation nor the other is in conflict with facts, 
230. The variations in the length of nights and days 
231.   

232. And further, let the regularity of their orbits be explained in the same way as certain ordinary incidents within our own experience; the divine nature must not on any account be adduced to explain this, but must be kept free from the task and in perfect bliss. Unless this be done, the whole study of celestial phenomena will be in vain, as indeed it has proved to be with some who did not lay hold of a possible method, but fell into the folly of supposing that these events happen in one single way only and of rejecting all the others which are possible, suffering themselves to be carried into the realm of the unintelligible, and being unable to take a comprehensive view of the facts which must be taken as clues to the rest.
233.   

234. An eclipse of the sun or moon may be due to the extinction of their light, just as within our own experience this is observed to happen; and again by interposition of something else—whether it be the earth or some other invisible body like it. And thus we must take in conjunction the explanations which agree with one another, and remember that the concurrence of more than one at the same time may not impossibly happen. 
235. [
236. He says the same in Book XII. of his 
237. Epilecta.
238. De Natura,
239. For in all the celestial phenomena 
240.   

241. for in our own experience we see many things which shine by their own light and many also which shine by borrowed light. And none of the celestial phenomena stand in the way, if only we always keep in mind the method of plural explanation and the several consistent assumptions and causes, instead of dwelling on what is inconsistent and giving it a false importance so as always to fall back in one way or another upon the single explanation. The appearance of the face in the moon may equally well arise from interchange of parts, or from interposition of something, or in any other of the ways which might be seen to accord with the facts. 
242.   

243. The waning of the moon and again her waxing
244. Cf.
245.   

246. The turnings of the sun and moon in their course may be due to the obliquity of the heaven, whereby it is forced back at these times.
247. Cf.
248. and this through excessive heat, due to a certain extension of the fire which always encroaches upon that which is near it.
249. From Lucr. v. 519 f. it is probable that words are lost from the text which ascribed these motions to the quest of fiery atoms by the heavenly bodies.
250.   

251. And the rising and setting of the sun, moon, and stars may be due to kindling and quenching,
252. Cf.
253. The opinion of Heraclitus (p. 32 B, 6 D) and Xenophanes, and Metrodorus of Chios. Servius, however (
254. Aen.
255. G.
256. ad
257.   

258. The size of the sun and the remaining stars relatively to us is just as great as it appears.
259. On Nature.
260. [
261. This he states in the eleventh book 
262. On Nature.
263. De Fin.
264. Acad. Pr.
265. Περὶ σημείων
266. Cf.
267. The sun and moon and the stars generally were not of independent origin and later absorbed within our world, 
268. This must be a gloss, because earth and sea are made of less subtle atoms than the heavenly bodies.
269. [and so too did earth and sea]
270. [such parts of it at least as serve at all for its defence]
271.   

272. For it is not enough that there should be an aggregation or a vortex in the empty space in which a world may arise, as the necessitarians hold, and may grow until it collide with another, as one of the so-called physicists
273. Democritus; 
274. φθείρεσθαι δὲ τοὺς κόσμους ὑπʼ ἀλλήλων προσπίπτοντας;
275. cf.
276.   

277. That there is an infinite number of such worlds can be perceived, and that such a world may arise in a world or in one of the 
278. intermundium
279. supra
280. locus intactus inane uacansque
281. Cf.
282. intermundia
283.   

284. A world is a circumscribed portion of the universe, which contains stars and earth and all other visible things, cut off from the infinite, and terminating [
285. and terminating in a boundary which may be either thick or thin, a boundary whose dissolution will bring about the wreck of all within it
286. However, we must observe each fact as presented, and further separate from it all the facts presented along with it, the occurrence of which from various causes is not contradicted by facts within our experience.
287.   

288. For in the study of nature we must not conform to empty assumptions and arbitrary laws, but follow the promptings of the facts; for our life has no need now of unreason and false opinion; our one need is untroubled existence. All things go on uninterruptedly, if all be explained by the method of 
289.   

290. We do not seek to wrest by force what is impossible, nor to understand all matters equally well, nor make our treatment always as clear as when we discuss human life or explain the principles of physics in general—for instance, that the whole of being consists of bodies and intangible nature, or that the ultimate elements of things are indivisible, or any other proposition which admits only one explanation of the phenomena to be possible. But this is not the case with celestial phenomena: these at any rate admit of manifold causes for their occurrence and manifold accounts, none of them contradictory of sensation, of their nature.
291.   

292. In the first place, remember that, like everything else, knowledge of celestial phenomena, whether taken along with other things or in isolation, has no other end in view than peace of mind and firm conviction.
293. Philosophy is defined as 
294. Frag.
295. cf.
296. Adv. math.
297. an activity which by words and arguments secures the happy life
298. We will then complete our writing and grant all you ask. Many others besides you will find these reasonings useful, and especially those who have but recently made acquaintance with the true story of nature and those who are attached to pursuits which go deeper than any part of ordinary education. So you will do well to take and learn them and get them up quickly along with the short epitome in my letter to Herodotus.
299. This would seem decisive of what the Shorter Catechism of Epicurus really was; see, however, § 135.
300.   

301. In your letter to me, of which Cleon was the bearer, you continue to show me affection which I have merited by my devotion to you, and you try, not without success, to recall the considerations which make for a happy life. To aid your memory you ask me for a clear and concise statement respecting celestial phenomena; for what we have written on this subject elsewhere is, you tell me, hard to remember, although you have my books constantly with you. I was glad to receive your request and 
302.   

303. Epicurus to Pythocles, greeting.
304. Such is his epistle on Physics. Next comes the 
305. epistle on Celestial Phenomena.
306. It is of such a sort that those who are already tolerably, or even perfectly, well acquainted with the details can, by analysis of what they know into such elementary perceptions as these, best prosecute their researches in physical science as a whole; while those, on the other hand, who are not altogether entitled to rank as mature students can in silent fashion and as quick as thought run over the doctrines most important for their peace of mind.
307. So that, if this statement be accurately retained and take effect, a man will, I make no doubt, be incomparably better equipped than his fellows, even if he should never go into all the exact details. For he will clear up for himself many of the points which I have worked out in detail in my complete exposition; and the summary itself, if borne in mind, will be of constant service to him.
308.   

309. Here then, Herodotus, you have the chief doctrines 
310. Hence we must attend to present feelings and sense perceptions, whether those of mankind in general or those peculiar to the individual, and also attend to all the clear evidence available, as given by each of the standards of truth. For by studying them we shall rightly trace to its cause and banish the source of disturbance and dread, accounting for celestial phenomena and for all other things which from time to time befall us and cause the utmost alarm to the rest of mankind.
311. But mental tranquillity means being released from all these troubles and cherishing a continual remembrance of the highest and most important truths.
312.   

313. There is yet one more point to seize, namely, that the greatest anxiety of the human mind arises through the belief that the heavenly bodies are blessed and indestructible, and that at the same time they have volitions and actions and causality inconsistent with this belief; and through expecting or apprehending some everlasting evil, either because of the myths, or because we are in dread of the mere insensibility of death, as if it had to do with us; and through being reduced to this state not by conviction but by a certain irrational perversity, so that, if men do not set bounds to their terror, they endure as much or even more intense anxiety than the man whose views on these matters are quite vague. 
314.   

315. we must not suppose that our treatment of these matters fails of accuracy, so far as it is needful to ensure our tranquillity and happiness. When, therefore, we investigate the causes of celestial and atmospheric phenomena, as of all that is unknown, we must take into account the variety of ways in which analogous occurrences happen within our experience; while as for those who do not recognize the difference between what is or comes about from a single cause and that which may be the effect of any one of several causes, overlooking the fact that the objects are only seen at a distance, and are moreover ignorant of the conditions that render, or do not render, peace of mind impossible 
316.   

317. Hence, if we discover more than one cause that may account for solstices, settings and risings, eclipses and the like, as we did also in particular matters of detail, 
318. But when we come to subjects for special inquiry, there is nothing in the knowledge of risings and settings and solstices and eclipses and all kindred subjects that contributes to our happiness; but those who are well-informed about such matters and yet are ignorant what the heavenly bodies really are, and what are the most important causes of phenomena, feel quite as much fear as those who have no such special information—nay, perhaps even greater fear, when the curiosity excited by this additional knowledge cannot find a solution or understand the subordination of these phenomena to the highest causes.
319.   

320. Further, we must recognize on such points as this no plurality of causes or contingency, but must hold that nothing suggestive of conflict or disquiet is compatible with an immortal and blessed nature. And the mind can grasp the absolute truth of this.
321. Further, we must hold that to arrive at accurate knowledge of the cause of things of most moment is the business of natural science, and that happiness depends on this (viz. on the knowledge of celestial and atmospheric phenomena), and upon knowing what the heavenly bodies really are, and any kindred facts contributing to exact knowledge in this respect.
322. i.e.
323. 

324. For troubles and anxieties and feelings of anger and partiality do not accord with bliss, but always imply weakness and fear and dependence upon one’s neighbours. Nor, again, must we hold that things which are no more than globular masses of fire, being at the same time endowed with bliss, assume these motions at will. Nay, in every term we use we must hold fast to all the majesty which attaches to such notions as bliss and immortality, lest the terms should generate opinions inconsistent with this majesty. Otherwise such inconsistency will of itself suffice to produce the worst disturbance in our minds. Hence, where we find phenomena invariably recurring, the invariableness of the recurrence must be ascribed to the original interception and conglomeration of atoms whereby the world was formed.
325.   

326. Nay more: we are bound to believe that in the sky revolutions, solstices, eclipses, risings and settings, and the like, take place without the ministration or command, either now or in the future, of any being who at the same time enjoys perfect bliss along with immortality. 
327. Subsequently whole tribes adopted their own special names, in order that their communications might be less ambiguous to each other and more briefly expressed. And as for things not visible, so far as those who were conscious of them tried to introduce any such notion, they put in circulation certain names for them, either sounds which they 
328. See Bignone, p. 107 note 3.
329.   

330. Hence even the names of things were not originally due to convention,
331. Cf.
332. Cf.
333. Again, we must suppose that nature
334. That is, nature working in primitive man, almost the same thing as instinct.
335.   

336. And further, we must not suppose that the worlds have necessarily one and the same shape. 
337. [
338. And the same holds good for their nurture in a world after they have arisen. And so too we must think it happens upon the earth also.
339. [
340. On the contrary, in the twelfth book 
341. On Nature
342.   

343. After the foregoing we have next to consider that the worlds and every finite aggregate which bears a strong resemblance to things we commonly see have arisen out of the infinite.
344. [
345. It is clear, then, that he also makes the worlds perishable, as their parts are subject to change. Elsewhere he says the earth is supported on the air.
346. Ecl.
347. Cf.
348. Cf.
349. No further proof is required: we have only to reflect that we attach the attribute of time to days and nights and their parts, and likewise to feelings of pleasure and pain and to neutral states, to states of movement and states of rest, conceiving a peculiar accident of these to be this very characteristic which we express by the word 
350. [
351. He says this both in the second book 
352. On Nature
353. time.
354.   

355. There is another thing which we must consider carefully. We must not investigate time as we do the other accidents which we investigate in a subject, namely, by referring them to the preconceptions envisaged in our minds; but we must take into account the plain fact itself, in virtue of which we speak of time as long or short, linking to it in intimate connexion this attribute of duration.
356. time
357. Adv. math.
358. Cf.
359.   

360. But only as often as they are seen actually to belong to it, since such accidents are not perpetual concomitants. There is no need to banish from reality this clear evidence that the accident has not the nature of that whole—by us called body—to which it belongs, nor of the permanent properties which accompany the whole. Nor, on the other hand, must we suppose the accident to have independent existence (for this is just as inconceivable in the case of accidents as in that of the permanent properties); but, as is manifest, they should all be regarded as accidents, not as permanent concomitants, of bodies, nor yet as having the rank of independent existence. Rather they are seen to be exactly as and what sensation itself makes them individually claim to be.
361.   

362. Again, qualities often attach to bodies without 
363. accidents
364. Cf.
365. accidents
366.   

367. nor yet to be non-existent, nor to be some other and incorporeal entities cleaving to body,
368. Cf.
369.   

370. Moreover, shapes and colours, magnitudes and weights, and in short all those qualities which are predicated of body, in so far as they are perpetual properties either of all bodies or of visible bodies, are knowable by sensation of these very properties: these, I say, must not be supposed to exist independently by themselves
371. Adv. math.
372. Cf.
373. If, then, we bring all these arguments concerning soul to the criterion of our feelings and perceptions, and if we keep in mind the proposition stated at the outset, we shall see that the subject has been adequately comprehended in outline: which will enable us to determine the details with accuracy and confidence.
374.   

375. There is the further point to be considered, what the incorporeal can be, if, I mean, according to current usage the term is applied to what can be conceived as self-existent.
376. Or, if 
377. that according to current usage we apply the term 
378. incorporeal
379. ὅτι τὸ ἀσώματον λέγομεν
380.   

381. For we cannot think of it
382. [
383. He says elsewhere that the soul is composed of the smoothest and roundest of atoms, far superior in both respects to those of fire; that part of it is irrational, this being scattered over the rest of the frame, while the rational part resides in the chest, as is manifest from our fears and our joy; that sleep occurs when the parts of the soul which have been scattered all over the composite organism are held fast in it or dispersed, and afterwards collide with one another by their impacts. The semen is derived from the whole of the body.
384. It = the soul, the logical subject, the neuter replacing the more appropriate feminine pronoun.
385.   

386. Hence, so long as the soul is in the body, it never loses sentience through the removal of some other part. The containing sheath
387. Cf.
388. Since the participle 
389. στεγάζοντα
390. στεγάζον
391.   

392. Still, it would not have had sensation, had it not been somehow confined within the rest of the frame. But the rest of the frame, though it provides this indispensable condition
393. The body, by keeping soul-atoms together without much dispersion, allows them to vibrate with the motions that generate sentience and sensation.
394.   

395. Next, keeping in view our perceptions and feelings (for so shall we have the surest grounds for belief), we must recognize generally that the soul is a corporeal thing, composed of fine particles, dispersed all over the frame,
396. The so-called 
397. ἀκατον όμαστον
398. nominis expers
399. nameless
400. ἀερῶδές τι
401. four
402. Cf.
403. Cf.
404.   

405. Moreover, when we come to deal with composite bodies, one of them will travel faster than another, although their atoms have equal speed. This is because the atoms in the aggregates are travelling in one direction
406. When the atoms in a composite body are, during a continuous sensible time, however short, all moving in one single direction, then the composite body will be travelling from place to place and have a relative velocity.
407.   

408. When they are travelling through the void and meet with no resistance, the atoms must move with equal speed. Neither will heavy atoms travel more quickly than small and light ones, so long as nothing meets them, nor will small atoms travel more quickly than large ones, provided they always find a passage suitable to their size, and provided also that they 
409.   

410. Further, we must not assert 
411. ad infinitum.
412. ad infinitum
413. down
414. up
415. This verb (
416. ἄγειν
417. Objection was taken by Aristotle to the atomic motion of Democritus, on the ground that it implied a point or region absolutely high, and an opposite point or region absolutely low, these terms being unmeaning in infinite space (Aristotle, 
418. Classical Review
419. Phys.
420. down
421. up
422.   

423. We must recognize that this analogy also holds of the minimum in the atom; it is only in minuteness that it differs from that which is observed by sense, but it follows the same analogy. On the analogy of things within our experience we have declared that the atom has magnitude; and this, small as it is, we have merely reproduced on a larger scale. And further, the least and simplest
424. The parts of the atom are incapable of motion; 
425. cf.
426. i.e.
427. void of parts,
428. ἀμερῆ,
429. uncompounded.
430. i.e.
431.   

432. We must consider the minimum perceptible by sense as not corresponding to that which is capable of being traversed, 
433. i.e.
434. visible
435. That which admits the successive transitions from part to part.
436. i.e.
437.   

438. For when once we have said that an infinite number of particles, however small, are contained in anything, it is not possible to conceive how it could any longer be limited or finite in size. For clearly our infinite number of particles must have some size; and then, of whatever size they were, the aggregate they made would be infinite. And, in the next place, since what is finite has an extremity which is distinguishable, even if it is not by itself observable, it is not possible to avoid thinking of another such extremity next to this. Nor can we help thinking that in this way, by proceeding forward 
439. Each visible body is the sum of minima, or least perceptible points, which, because they are of finite size, are also finite in number.
440.   

441. Besides, you must not suppose that there are parts unlimited in number, be they ever so small, in any finite body. Hence not only must we reject as impossible subdivision 
442. ad infinitum
443. Admitting indivisible atoms, hard solid bodies can be explained; whereas, if atoms were soft and thus divisible 
444. ad infinitum
445. i.e.
446. ad infinitum
447. But to attribute any and 
448. much smaller than the things which our eyes begin to be able to see.
449. far below the ken of our senses
450. Cf.
451. i.e.
452.   

453. Again, you should not suppose that the atoms have any and every size, 
454. The opinion of Democritus.
455. For in the case of changes of configuration within our experience the figure is supposed to be inherent when other qualities are stripped off, but the qualities are not supposed, like the shape which is left behind, to inhere in the subject of change, but to vanish altogether from the body. Thus, then, what is left behind is sufficient to account for the differences in composite bodies, since something at least must necessarily be left remaining and be immune from annihilation.
456.   

457. Moreover, we must hold that the atoms in fact possess none of the qualities belonging to things which come under our observation, except shape, weight, and size, and the properties necessarily conjoined 
458. In § 53 
459. ὄγκος
460. i.e.
461. particle,
462. ὄγκος
463. If something unchanging underlies every change, the transformation of things and of their qualities must be due to the motion of the component atoms. With 
464. στερεμνίοις
465. ἐν πολλοῖς
466. For shape 
467. ib.
468. ib.
469. Adv. math.
470. cf.
471. cf.
472. cf.
473.   

474. Again, we must believe that smelling,
475. Cf.
476. For without the transmission from the object of a certain interconnexion of the parts no such sensation could arise. Therefore we must not suppose that the air itself is moulded into shape by the voice emitted or something similar
477. Air is not, as Democritus held (Beare, 
478. something similar
479. op. cit.
480.   

481. Again, hearing takes place when a current passes from the object, whether person or thing, which emits voice or sound or noise, or produces the sensation of hearing in any way whatever. This current is broken up into homogeneous particles, which at the same time preserve a certain mutual connexion and a distinctive unity extending to the object which emitted them, and thus, for the most part, cause the perception in that case or, if not, merely indicate the presence of the external object. 
482. And to this view we must closely adhere, if we are not to repudiate the criteria founded on the clear evidence of sense, nor again to throw all these things into confusion by maintaining falsehood as if it were truth.
483. Epicurus was a severe critic of the Sceptics; 
484. cf.
485.   

486. For the presentations which, 
487. distinguishable
488. διαληπτόν,
489. to be distinct
490. διάληψιν ἔχειν,
491. e.g.
492.   

493. They move with rapid motion;
494. [
495. following a certain movement in ourselves connected with, but distinct from, the mental picture presented—which is the cause of error.
496. Cf.
497. The film suffers from obstacles especially in its passage through the air, and is sometimes torn into tatters. When these reach the eye, the result is faulty perception; 
498. cf.
499. e.g.
500. The reader is left to infer that, the more rapid the motion, the more continuous is the succession of fresh images. It is this uninterrupted train of images which guarantees the continued existence of the external object, just as their similarity or identity guarantees its oneness: 
501. N.D.
502. cf.
503.   

504. We must also consider that it is by the entrance of something coming from external objects that we see their shapes and think of them.
505. This was the view of Democritus; 
506. Greek Theories of Elementary Cognition
507. cf.
508. Thought, as well as vision, is explained by images, but images of a much finer texture, which fail to affect the eyes but do affect the mind: 
509. cf.
510.   

511. Besides this, remember that the production of the images is as quick as thought. For particles are continually streaming off from the surface of bodies, though no diminution of the bodies is observed, because other particles take their place.
512. e.g.
513. If vision is to be not merely intermittent but continuous, images must be perpetually streaming from the objects seen to our eyes; there must be a continual succession of similar images. 
514. Cf.
515.   

516. Not that, if we consider the minute times perceptible by reason alone,
517. Or, inserting 
518. a passage of the proper size to secure that nothing obstructs their endless emanation.
519. τῷ ἀπείρῳ,
520. τῷ,
521. τὸ,
522. Cf.
523. the minimum continuous time.
524. times
525. In one unit of time, when we can perceive it by sense and while one single word is uttered, many latent times are contained which reason finds to exist
526. Cf.
527.   

528. Again, there are outlines or films, which are of the same shape as solid bodies, but of a thinness far exceeding that of any object that we see. For it is not impossible that there should be found in the surrounding air combinations of this kind, materials adapted for expressing the hollowness and thinness of surfaces, and effluxes preserving the same relative position and motion which they had in the solid objects from which they come. To these films we give the name of 
529. idols.
530. images
531.   

532. Moreover, there is an infinite number of worlds, some like this world, others unlike it.
533. This remark is not misplaced. For infinity of worlds follows from the infinity of (
534. inf.
535. b
536. a
537. The repetition at such length of all that we are now recalling to mind furnishes an adequate outline for our conception of the nature of things.
538.   

539. This is because each atom is separated from the rest by void, which is incapable of offering any resistance to the rebound; while it is the solidity of the atom which makes it rebound after a collision, 
540. [
541. He says below that atoms have no quality at all except shape, size, and weight. But that colour varies with the arrangement of the atoms he states in his 
542. Twelve Rudiments
543.  

544. Note the distinction between (1) solids, composed of interlacing atoms (which have got entangled), and (2) fluids, composed of atoms not interlaced, needing a sheath or container of other atoms, if they are to remain united. To (2) belongs Soul (§ 66). See Lucr. ii. 80-141; Cic. 
545. De fin.
546. The atoms are in continual motion through all eternity. 
547. [
548. that the atoms move with equal speed, since the void makes way for the lightest and heaviest alike.
549. Properly 
550. below
551. further on
552. nearer the centre
553. further within
554. further within
555. Further, he says below
556. [
557. ; but he adds, since the qualities change, unless one is prepared to keep enlarging their magnitudes also simply 
558. ad infinitum.
559. Properly 
560. below
561. further on
562. nearer the centre
563. further within
564. further within
565. For neither does the divisibility go on 
566. ad infinitum,
567.   

568. Furthermore, the atoms, which have no void in them—out of which composite bodies arise and into which they are dissolved—vary indefinitely in their shapes; for so many varieties of things as we see could never have arisen out of a recurrence of a definite number of the same shapes. The like atoms of each shape are absolutely infinite; but the variety of shapes, though indefinitely large, is not absolutely infinite.
569. For if the void were infinite and bodies finite, the bodies would not have stayed anywhere but would have been dispersed in their course through the infinite void, not having any supports or counter-checks 
570.   

571. Moreover, the sum of things is unlimited both by reason of the multitude of the atoms and the extent of the void. 
572. Again, the sum of things is infinite. For what is finite has an extremity, and the extremity of anything is discerned only by comparison with something else. (Now the sum of things is not discerned by comparison with anything else:
573. The missing premiss is supplied by Cicero, 
574. Cf.
575. at quod omne est, id non cernitur ex alio extrinsecus.
576. De div.
577. These elements are indivisible and unchangeable, and necessarily so, if things are not all to be destroyed and pass into non-existence, but are to be strong enough to endure when the composite bodies are broken up, because they possess a solid nature and are incapable of being anywhere or anyhow dissolved.
578. Cf.
579.   

580. Again 
581. [
582. he repeats this in the First Book and in Books XIV. and XV. of the work 
583. On Nature
584. And if there were no space (which we call also void and place and intangible nature),
585. Cf.
586.   

587. Further 
588. Usener’s insertion of 
589. Dox. Gr.
590. cf.
591. bodies and space
592. [
593. this he says also in the Larger Epitome near the beginning and in his First Book 
594. On Nature
595. And if that which disappears had been destroyed and become non-existent, everything would have perished, that into which the things were dissolved being non-existent. Moreover, the sum total of things was always such as it is now, and such it will ever remain. For there is nothing into which it can change. For outside the sum of things there is nothing which could enter into it and bring about the change.
596.   

597. When this is clearly understood, it is time to consider generally things which are obscure. To begin with, nothing comes into being out of what is non-existent.
598. Cf.
599. This is no innovation of Epicurus but a tenet common to all the pre-Socratics: the One, or Nature as a whole, assumed by the Ionians, is unchangeable in respect of generation and destruction; 
600. Met.
601. cf.
602. Next, we must by all means stick to our sensations, that is, simply to the present impressions whether of the mind or of any criterion whatever, and similarly to our actual feelings, in order that we may have the means of determining that which needs confirmation and that which is obscure.
603. For the primary signification of every term employed must be clearly seen, and ought to need no proving
604. Epicurus explains this more fully in Fr. 258 (Usener, p. 189). For 
605. declare.
606. declaration
607. proving
608. proof
609.   

610. In the first place, Herodotus, you must understand what it is that words denote, in order that by reference to this we may be in a position to test opinions, inquiries, or problems, so that our proofs may not run on untested 
611. ad infinitum
612. Hence, since such a course is of service to all who take up natural science, I, who devote to the subject my continuous energy and reap the calm enjoyment of a life like this, have prepared for you just such an epitome and manual of the doctrines as a whole.
613.   

614. To the former, then—the main heads—we must continually return, and must memorize them so far as to get a valid conception of the facts, as well as the means of discovering all the details exactly when once the general outlines are rightly understood and remembered; since it is the privilege of the mature student to make a ready use of his conceptions by referring every one of them to elementary facts and simple terms. For it is impossible to gather up the results of continuous diligent study of the entirety of things, unless we can embrace in short formulas and hold in mind all that might have been accurately expressed even to the minutest detail.
615.   
	
616. For those who are unable to study carefully all my physical writings or to go into the longer treatises at all, I have myself prepared an epitome
617. Only the principal doctrines are contained in this epistle; more, both general and particular, was given in the 
618. Larger Compendium.
619. This, as the most authentic summary of Epicurean physics which we possess, serves as a groundwork in modern histories, 
620. Stoic and Epicurean
621. Epicurea
622. Lucretius
623. Studi Lucreziani
624. e.g.
625.   

626. Epicurus to Herodotus, greeting.
627. But we must return to the letter.
628. The letter to Herodotus is the second and most valuable instalment of Epicurean doctrine. The manuscript seems to have been entrusted to a scribe to copy, just as it was: scholia and marginal notes, even where they interrupt the thread of the argument, have been faithfully reproduced. See §§ 39, 40, 43, 44, 50, 66, 71, 73, 74, 75.
629. They affirm that there are two states of feeling, pleasure and pain, which arise in every animate being, and that the one is favourable and the other hostile to that being, and by their means choice and avoidance are determined
630. Division of philosophy is probably meant.
631. Cf. inf.
632. i.e.
633. get close to the tower and then learn what it looks like at close quarters.
634. See §§ 50, 147. The tower which seems round at a distance and square when we get up to it was the typical example in the school of that process of testing beliefs by observation which is here prescribed. 
635. Adv. math.
636. sqq.
637. sqq.
638. Cf.
639. Opinion they also call conception or assumption, and declare it to be true and false
640. e.g.
641. that which awaits
642. See § 124, where a true 
643. s.v.
644. Index Ar.
645. cf.
646. δόξα·
647. ὑπόληψις
648. ὑπόληψις.
649. πρόληψις
650.   

651. By preconception they mean a sort of apprehension or a right opinion or notion, or universal idea stored in the mind; that is, a recollection of an external object often presented, 
652. How do we know that this is a man?
653. e.g.
654. i.e.
655. man
656. e.g.
657.   

658. one sensation cannot convict another and kindred sensation, for they are equally valid; nor can one sensation refute another which is not kindred but heterogeneous, for the objects which the two senses judge are not the same
659. i.e.
660. Adv. math.
661. Cf.
662. More precisely 
663. τὸ προσδοξαζόμενον περὶ τοῦ ἀοράτου.
664. τὸ προσμέν ον καὶ τὸ ἄδηλον,
665. e.g.
666. ἄδηλον
667. Adv math.
668. cf.
669. αἰσθής εων
670. i.e.
671. Cf. inf.
672.   

673. They reject dialectic as superfluous; holding that in their inquiries the physicists should be content to employ the ordinary terms for things.
674. Sovran Maxims.
675. Summary
676. Such mental pictures are caused by atoms too fine to affect sense: 
677. Adv. math.
678. Epicurea
679. N.D.
680. sqq.
681. sqq.
682. infra
683. cf.
684. The Canon
685. An opinion often emphasized: 
686. sqq.
687. Cf.
688. e.g.
689.   

690. Canonic forms the introduction to the system and is contained in a single work entitled 
691. Of the End.
692. On Human Life
693. Of Nature
694. The Canon.
695.  
	
696. It is divided into three parts—Canonic, Physics, Ethics. 
697. The first epistle is addressed to Herodotus and deals with physics; the second to Pythocles and deals with astronomy or meteorology; the third is addressed to Menoeceus and its subject is human life. We must begin with the first after some few preliminary remarks
698. i.e.
699. I will also set down his 
700. Sovran Maxims
701.   

702. The views expressed in these works I will try to set forth by quoting three of his epistles, in which he has given an epitome of his whole system.
703. The full title, 
704. Of Diseases and Death,
705. Περὶ νόσων καὶ θανάτου,
706.   

707. hence he has frequently repeated himself and set down the first thought that occurred to him, and in his haste has left things unrevised, and he has so many citations that they alone fill his books: nor is this unexampled in Zeno and Aristotle.
708.  

709. Epicurus was a most prolific author and eclipsed all before him in the number of his writings: for they amount to about three hundred rolls, and contain not a single citation from other authors; it is Epicurus himself who speaks throughout. Chrysippus tried to outdo him in authorship according to Carneades, who therefore calls him the literary parasite of Epicurus. 
710. For every subject treated by Epicurus, Chrysippus in his contentiousness must treat at equal length; 
711. There were three other men who bore the name of Epicurus: one the son of Leonteus and Themista; another a Magnesian by birth; and a third, a drillsergeant. 
712. and Demetrius,
713. sqq.
714. Adv. math.
715. Cf.
716.   

717. And then there is Leonteus of Lampsacus and his wife Themista, to whom Epicurus wrote letters; further, Colotes
718. N.D.
719. Ac. Post.
720. Cf.
721. Colotes, a great admirer of the master, wrote a work to prove that life is impossible by the rules of any other philosophy. Plutarch wrote a tract against him: 
722. Οὐδὲ ζῆν ἔστιν ἡδέως κατʼ Ἐπίκουρον,
723. Πρὸς Κολώτην
724. He died of paralysis, but not till he had given full proof of his ability. 
725.   

726. There are in circulation the following excellent works by him: 
727. Next came Polyaenus,
728. One of the four pillars of the school: a great geometer until he became an Epicurean (Cic. 
729. Ep.
730. De fin.
731. Ac. Pr.
732. Metrodorus wrote the following works: 

733.   

734. His goodness was proved in all ways, as Epicurus testifies in the introductions
735. This second mention of Timocrates (see § 6) may have been a marginal note, not very suitably placed, intended to distinguish the renegade Timocrates from his namesake, one of Epicurus’ executors (§ 18).
736. Timocrates.
737. Epicurus seems to have prefixed dedications or other short notices to the separate books of his larger works. Thus book xxviii. of his great work 
738. sqq.
739. Vol. Herc. Coll. Alt.
740. On Nature
741.   

742. Among his disciples, of whom there were many, the following were eminent: Metrodorus,
743. Metrodorus (330-277 b.c.) was the master’s beloved disciple; but the encomium preserved by Seneca (
744. Epicurus says: 
745. quosdam indigere ope aliena, non ituros si nemo praecesserit, sed bene secuturos: ex his Metrodorum ait esse.
746. Ep.
747. Such were the terms of his will. 
748. On this blissful day, which is also the last of my life, I write this to you. My continual sufferings from strangury and dysentery are so great that nothing could augment them; but over against them all I set gladness of mind at the remembrance of our past conversations. But I would have you, as becomes your life-long attitude to me and to philosophy, watch over the children of Metrodorus.
749. And when near his end he wrote the following letter to Idomeneus: 
750.   
	
751. And if anything should happen to Hermarchus before the children of Metrodorus grow up, Amynomachus and Timocrates shall give from the funds bequeathed by me, so far as possible, enough for their several needs, as long as they are well ordered. And let them provide for the rest according to my arrangements; that everything may be carried out, so far as it lies in their power. Of my slaves I manumit Mys, Nicias, Lycon, and I also give Phaedrium her liberty.
752. All my books to be given to Hermarchus.
753.   

754. Let them make Hermarchus trustee of the funds
755. That funds were raised by friends of Epicurus and placed at his disposal is certain from the letter to Idomeneus: Plut. 
756. πέμπε οὖν ἀπαρχὰς ἡμῖν εἰς τὴν τοῦ ἱεροῦ σώματος θεραπείαν.
757. Adv. Col.
758.   

759. And let Amynomachus and Timocrates take care of Epicurus, the son of Metrodorus, and of the son of Polyaenus, so long as they study and live with Hermarchus. Let them likewise provide for the maintenance of Metrodorus’s daughter,
760. Possibly Danaë: 
761. cf.
762.   

763. And from the revenues made over by me to Amynomachus and Timocrates let them to the best of their power in consultation with Hermarchus make separate provision (1) for the funeral offerings to my 
764. That this custom lasted in the school for centuries is proved by the testimony of Cicero (
765. supra
766. Cf.
767. Anth. Pal.
768. H.N.
769. De fin.
770.   

771. on condition that they shall place the garden and all that pertains to it at the disposal of Hermarchus, son of Agemortus, of Mitylene, and the members of his society, and those whom Hermarchus may leave as his successors, to live and study in.
772. supra.
773. Cf.
774.   

775. His last will was as follows: 
776. On this wise I give and bequeath all my property to Amynomachus, son of Philocrates of Bate and Timocrates, son of Demetrius of Potamus, to each severally according to the items of the deed of gift laid up in the Metroön, 
777. Here is something of my own about him
778. Farewell, my friends; the truths I taught hold fast:  

779. Anth. Pal.
780. and then, having bidden his friends remember his doctrines, breathed his last. 
781.   

782. When he was thirty-two he founded a school of philosophy, first in Mitylene and Lampsacus, and then five years later removed to Athens, where he died in the second year of the 127th Olympiad,
783. 271-270 b.c.
784.   

785. He was born, according to Apollodorus in his 
786. The eighth month of the Attic civil year. Thus he would be born about February, 341 b.c. Plato died 347 b.c.
787. 341 b.c.
788. Chronology
789. Ariston
790. N.D.
791. s.v.
792. Cf.
793. Tripod
794. The Canon
795. Life of Epicurus
796. This is no doubt the Academic philosopher, Ariston of Alexandria, pupil of Antiochus, criticized by Philodemus in his Rhetoric, 
797. 2
798. V.H.
799. And in his correspondence he replaces the usual greeting, 
800. Live well.
801. May you do well,
802. I wish you joy,
803.   
	
804. The terms he used for things were the ordinary terms, and Aristophanes the grammarian credits him with a very characteristic style. He was so lucid a writer that in the work 
805. On Rhetoric
806. Apollodorus in his 
807. If this Praxiphanes was the pupil of Theophrastus, considerations of age would make it highly improbable that he could have taught Epicurus; 
808. cf.
809. Chronology
810.   

811. Among the early philosophers, says Diocles, his favourite was Anaxagoras, although he occasionally disagreed with him, and Archelaus the teacher of Socrates. Diocles adds that he used to train his friends in committing his treatises to memory.
812. Cf. infra
813. Ye toil, O men, for paltry things and incessantly begin strife and war for gain; but nature’s wealth extends to a moderate bound, whereas vain judgements have a limitless range. This message Neocles’ wise son heard from the Muses or from the sacred tripod at Delphi.
814. Sat.
815. Cf.
816.   

817. and to the same effect Diocles in the third book of his 
818. Anth. Plan.
819. Send me a little pot of cheese, that, when I like, I may fare sumptuously.
820. Epitome
821.   

822. his gratitude to his parents, his generosity to his brothers, his gentleness to his servants, as evidenced by the terms of his will and by the fact that they were members of the School, the most eminent of them being the aforesaid Mys; and in general, his benevolence to all mankind. His piety towards the gods and his affection for his country no words can describe. He carried deference to others to such excess that he did not even enter public life. He spent all his life in Greece, notwithstanding the calamities which had befallen her in that age
823. Epist.
824. Cf.
825. In the siege of Athens he is said to have maintained his disciples, counting out to each his ration of beans (Plut. 
826. Demetr.
827.   

828. went over to Carneades, being perhaps burdened by his master’s excessive goodness; the School itself which, while nearly all the others have died out, continues for ever without interruption through numberless reigns of one scholarch after another
829. So Aristocles; 
830. Epicurea
831. καὶ διέμεινεν ἡ αὐτοῦ σχόλη ἕως Καίσαρος τοῦ πρώτου ἔτη σκζʼ, ἐν οἶς διάδοχ οι αὐτῆς ἐγένον το ιδʼ.
832. ib.
833. Praep. Ev.
834. cf.
835. But these people are stark mad. For our philosopher has abundance of witnesses to attest his unsurpassed goodwill to all men—his native land, which honoured him with statues in bronze; his friends, so many in number that they could hardly be counted by whole cities, and indeed all who knew him, held fast as they were by the siren-charms of his doctrine, save Metrodorus
836. This man (not to be confounded with the more famous Metrodorus of Lampsacus, 
837. c.
838. cf.
839.   

840. Epicurus used to call this Nausiphanes jelly-fish,
841. In the same ironical sense in which Plato speaks of the Heracliteans who preached flux as 
842. themselves in flux.
843. Theaet.
844. τοὺς ῥέοντας
845. An ironical compliment, probably on Plato’s style: 
846. ἐγὼ ὁ χρυσοῦς,
847. Pro lapsu in sal.
848. χρυσός τομος.
849. cf.
850. golden
851. the toadies of Dionysius,
852. s.v.
853. ζῆν δὲ οὐκ ἀνθρώπου βίον ἀλλά τινος πλεύμονος;
854. Phil.
855. νῦν πλεύμονα καλῶν τὸν Ναυσιφάνην ὡς ἀναίσθητον;
856. Adv. math.
857. Cf.
858.   

859. further, that Epicurus’s acquaintance with philosophy was small and his acquaintance with life even smaller; that his bodily health was pitiful,
860. This so maddened him that he abused me and called me pedagogue.
861. Nay, let them go hang: for, when labouring with an idea, he too had the sophist’s off-hand boast-fulness like many another servile soul
862. On Nature
863. Non posse suaviter
864. De Epicuro eiusque discipulis
865. Cf.
866.  	

867. Again there was Timocrates, the brother of Metrodorus, who was his disciple and then left the school. He in the book entitled 
868. Merriment
869. It is added that he corresponded with many courtesans, and especially with Leontion, of whom Metrodorus also was enamoured. It is observed too that in his treatise 
870. Hoist all sail, my dear boy, and steer clear of all culture.
871. I know not how to conceive the good, apart from the pleasures of taste, sexual pleasures, the pleasures of sound and the pleasures of beautiful form.
872. θεῖον γένος ἡδονῶν.
873. Phil.
874. cf.
875. Tusc. Disp.
876. Cf.
877. καὶ τὰς διὰ μορφῆς κατʼ ὄψιν ἡδείας κινήσεις·
878. Cf.
879. On the Ethical End
880.  

881. Furthermore that he extolled Idomeneus, Herodotus, and Timocrates, who had published his esoteric doctrines, and flattered them for that very reason. Also that in his letters he wrote to Leontion, 
882. A perplexing passage. (1) As 
883. νουθετεῖται ὡς παρακινοῦσα.
884. Phaedrus
885. he deems her mad,
886. νομίζει αὐτὴν παρακινεῖν,
887. cf.
888. αὐτὴν περαίνειν,
889. he thinks that 
890. she
891. αὐτήν,
892. αὐτῇ
893. παραινετική
894. Against Epicurus
895. I will sit down and await thy divine advent, my heart’s desire.
896. I am quite ready, if you do not come to see me, to spin thrice on my own axis and be propelled to any place that you, including Themista, agree upon
897. O Lord Apollo, my dear little Leontion, with what tumultuous applause we were inspired as we read your letter.
898.   

899. They are followed by Posidonius the Stoic and his school, and Nicolaus and Sotion in the twelfth book of his work entitled 
900. Mithras was a Syrian. 
901. Adv. Col.
902. Contra Epic.
903. Cf.
904. On the Training of Epicurus as a Cadet
905. Compare again Dem.
906. De cor.
907. Dioclean Refutations
908.   

909. At his instigation his three brothers, Neocles, Chaeredemus, and Aristobulus, joined in his studies, according to Philodemus the Epicurean in the tenth book of his comprehensive work 
910. One Diotimus who calumniated Epicurus and was answered by the Epicurean Zeno is mentioned by Athenaeus, xiii. 611 b, as having been put to death.
911. Historical Parallels.
912. On Philosophers
913. Hence the point of Timon’s allusion
914. Again there is the latest and most shameless of the physicists, the schoolmaster’s son
915. The meaning is: 
916. Acharn.
917. ἅμα τῷ πατρὶ πρὸς τῷ διδασκαλεί ῳ προσεδρεύων.
918. De cor.
919. Cf.
920. a schoolmaster like his father before him.
921. Fr. 51 D.
922.   
	
923. For some time he stayed there and gathered disciples, but returned to Athens in the archonship of Anaxicrates.
924. Adv. math.
925. Cf.
926. chaos
927. Life of Epicurus
928. 307-306 b.c.
929.  
	
930. Epicurus, son of Neocles and Chaerestrate, was as citizen of Athens of the deme Gargettus, and, as Metrodorus says in his book 
931. Diod. Sic. xviii. 18. 9.
932. Epitome
933. F.H.G.
934. i.e.
935. On Noble Birth
936. EPICURUS (341-271 B.C.)
937. BOOK X
938. 

939. 

940.   

941. Euphranor had as pupil Eubulus of Alexandria; Eubulus taught Ptolemy, and he again Sarpedon and Heraclides; Heraclides again taught Aenesidemus of Cnossus, the compiler of eight books of Pyrrhonean discourses; the latter was the instructor of Zeuxippus his fellow-citizen, he of Zeuxis of the angular foot (
942. Possibly 
943. i.e.
944. κυδαθηναιεύς,
945. γωνιόπους,
946.   
	
947. According to Menodotus he left no successor, but his school lapsed until Ptolemy of Cyrene re-established it. Hippobotus and Sotion, however, say that he had as pupils Dioscurides of Cyprus, Nicolochus of Rhodes, Euphranor of Seleucia, and Praÿlus of the 
948. This is probably the same person as is referred to by Clem. Alex. 
949. Phil. Unters.
950. Παῦλος ὁ Λακύδου γνώριμος.
951. Strom.
952. Asked once by Arcesilaus why he had come there from Thebes, he replied, 
953. Funeral Banquet of Arcesilaus.
954. Silli
955. Why, to laugh when I have you all in full view !
956.   

957. Hence, when he came to read parts of them to Zopyrus the orator, he would turn over the pages and recite whatever came handy; then, when he was half through, he would discover the piece which he had been looking for in vain, so careless was he.
958. Why do you not marvel that we three have but four eyes between us?
959. Birds of a feather flock together.
960. Usually explained, after Diogenianus, of two notorious thieves, Attagas the Thessalian and Numenius the Corinthian. There may, however, be a sly hit at Pyrrho’s disciple Numenius (
961. supra
962. What business have you to come here, where we are all free men?
963. knaves-market,
964. Similar carelessness is recorded of Lamartine.
965.   

966. He was quick to perceive anything and to turn up his nose in scorn; he was fond of writing and at all times good at sketching plots for poets and collaborating in dramas. He used to give the dramatists Alexander and Homer materials for their tragedies.
967. You can, if you get hold of the ancient copies, and not the corrected copies of our day.
968. i.e.
969.   

970. Now this philosopher, according to Antigonus, was very fond of gardens and preferred to mind his own affairs. At all events there is a story that Hieronymus the Peripatetic said of him, 
971. Just as with the Scythians those who are in flight shoot as well as those who pursue, so, among philosophers, some catch their disciples by pursuing them, some by fleeing from them, as for instance Timon.
972. He died at the age of nearly ninety, so we learn from Antigonus and from Sotion in his eleventh book. I have heard that he had only one eye; indeed he used to call himself a Cyclops. There was another Timon, the misanthrope.
973. Diels regards the passage from 
974. Τίμων ὁ μισάνθρωπος,
975. καὶ ἔπη,
976. The first deals with the same subjects, except that the poem is a monologue. It begins as follows
977. Ye sophists, ye inquisitives, come ! follow !
978. Fr. 1 D.
979.   

980. There are also reputed works of his extending to twenty thousand verses which are mentioned by Antigonus of Carystus, who also wrote his life. There are three 
981. silli
982.   

983. He was, according to Antigonus, fond of wine, and in the time that he could spare from philosophy he used to write poems. These included epics, tragedies, satyric dramas, thirty comedies and sixty tragedies, besides 
984. silli
985. This son was a man of high repute, as we learn from Sotion in his eleventh book. Timon, however, found himself without means of support and sailed to the Hellespont and Propontis. Living now at Chalcedon as a sophist, he increased his reputation still further and, having made his fortune, went to Athens, where he lived until his death, except for a short period which he spent at Thebes. He was known to King Antigonus and to Ptolemy Philadelphus, as his own iambics
986. Possibly the proem of the 
987. Silli
988.  

989. Timon, says our
990. On the Silli
991. ὁ παρʼ ἡμῶν
992. a Sceptic like myself,
993. nostri.
994. οἱ ἡμέτεροι,
995. ὁ τῆς ἡμετέρας πόλεως.
996. my fellowcitizen,
997. Ὁ παρʼ ἡμῶν.
998. Chapter 12. TIMON (c. 320-2 30 B.C.)
999. 

1000.   

1001. For in matters which are for us to decide we shall neither choose this nor shrink from that; and things which are not for us to decide but happen of necessity, such as hunger, thirst and pain, we cannot escape,
1002. πρᾁως ἔχω.
1003. Lys.
1004. cf.
1005. i.e.
1006. For we admit that we feel cold, that we are thirsty,
1007. τὸν σκεπτικὸν) ὑπὸ τῶν κατηναγκα σμένων·
1008. sc.
1009. ὀχλεῖς θαίφαμεν
1010. Pyrrh. Hyp.
1011. Τὰ δʼ ὅσα περὶ ἡμᾶς οὐκ ἔστιν, ἀλλὰ κατʼ ἀνάγκην, οὐ δυνάμεθα φεύγειν.
1012.   

1013. Against this criterion of appearances the dogmatic philosophers urge that, when the same appearances produce in us different impressions, 
1014. i.e.
1015. e.g.
1016.   
	
1017. Aenesidemus too in the first book of his 
1018. Agrippa
1019. On Two-sided Arguments,
1020. On Inquiry.
1021. Against Wisdom
1022. Pyrrhonean Discourses
1023.   
	
1024. We see that a man moves, and that he perishes; how it happens we do not know. We merely object to accepting the unknown substance behind phenomena. When we say a picture has projections, we are describing what is apparent; but if we say that it has no projections, we are then speaking, not of what is apparent, but of something else. This is 
1025. I do not lay it down that honey is sweet, but I admit that it appears to be so.
1026. On the Senses
1027. But the apparent is omnipotent wherever it goes;
1028. Fr. 69 D.
1029. Conceits
1030. Python
1031.   

1032. Again, the dogmatic philosophers maintain that the Sceptics do away with life itself, in that they reject all that life consists in. The others say this is false, for they do not deny that we see; they only say that they do not know how we see. 
1033. without admitting that it really is what it appears to be.
1034. We admit the apparent fact,
1035. for they are not like the assertion that the world is spherical. Indeed the latter statement is not certain, but the others are mere admissions. Thus in saying 
1036. not
1037. We determine nothing,
1038.  

1039. The others reply, 
1040. We 
1041. § 74.
1042. We determine nothing
1043. Cf. supra
1044. i.e.
1045.   

1046. The dogmatists answer them by declaring that the Sceptics themselves do apprehend and dogmatize; for when they are thought to be refuting their hardest they do apprehend, for at the very same time they are asseverating and dogmatizing. Thus even when they declare that they determine nothing, and that to every argument there is an opposite argument, they are actually determining these very points and dogmatizing. 
1047. The whole of their mode of inference can be gathered from their extant treatises. Pyrrho himself, indeed, left no writings, but his associates Timon, Aenesidemus, Numenius and Nausiphanes did; and others as well. 
1048.   

1049. There is nothing good or bad by nature, for if there is anything good or bad by nature, it must be good or bad for all persons alike, just as snow is cold to all. But there is no good or bad which is such to all persons in common; therefore there is no such thing as good or bad by nature. For either all that is thought good by anyone whatever must be called good, or not all. Certainly all cannot be so called; since one and the same thing is thought good by one person and bad by another; for instance, Epicurus thought pleasure good and Antisthenes thought it bad; thus on our supposition it will follow that the same thing is both good and bad. But if we say that not all that anyone thinks good is good, we shall have to judge the different opinions; and this is impossible because of the equal validity of opposing arguments. Therefore the good by nature is unknowable. 
1050.   

1051. Nor, say they, is there any coming into being. For that which is does not come into being, since it 
1052. is
1053. They used also to deny the possibility of learning. If anything is taught, they say, either the existent is taught through its existence or the non-existent through its non-existence. But the existent is not taught through its existence, for the nature of existing things is apparent to and recognized by all; nor is the non-existent taught through the nonexistent, for with the non-existent nothing is ever done, so that it cannot be taught to anyone. 
1054.   

1055. Furthermore there is no motion; for that which moves moves either in the place where it is or in a place where it is not. But it cannot move in the place where it is, still less in any place where it is not. Therefore there is no such thing as motion. 
1056. But if both be alike causes, there will be nothing to be acted upon Nor can an incorporeal thing be the cause of an incorporeal thing, for the same reason. And a thing incorporeal cannot be the cause of a body, since nothing incorporeal creates anything corporeal. And, lastly, a body cannot be the cause of anything incorporeal, because what is produced must be of the material operated upon; but if it is not operated upon because it is incorporeal, it cannot be produced by anything whatever. Therefore there is no such thing as a cause. A corollary to this is their statement that the first principles of the universe have no real existence; for in that case something must have been there to create and act. 
1057.   

1058. Therefore a cause can only be an object of thought; inasmuch as, if it be a cause, it must bring with it that of which it is said to be the cause, otherwise it will not be a cause. Just as a father, in the absence of that in relation to which he is called father, will not be a father, so too with a cause. But that in relation to which the cause is thought of, namely the effect, is not present; for there is no coming into being or passing away or any other process: therefore there is no such thing as cause. Furthermore, if there is a cause, either bodies are the cause of bodies, or things incorporeal of things incorporeal; but neither is the case; therefore there is no such thing as cause. Body in fact could not be the cause of body, inasmuch as both have the same nature. And if either is 
1059.   

1060. Causes, too, they destroy in this way. A cause is something relative; for it is relative to what can be caused, namely, the effect. But things which are relative are merely objects of thought and have no substantial existence. 
1061. nor, lastly, is it apparent on non-apparent, because the sign, being relative, must be apprehended along with that of which it is the sign, which is not here the case. It follows that nothing uncertain can be apprehended; for it is through signs that uncertain things are said to be apprehended.
1062. This conclusion would debar us from all extension of knowledge beyond what is apparent here and now; whereas the dogmatists permit us from such facts to advance to what is not immediately evident, the realm of the unknown or as yet unascertained (
1063. ἄδηλον
1064.   

1065. They deny, too, that there is such a thing as a sign. If there is, they say, it must either be sensible or intelligible. Now it is not sensible, because what is sensible is a common attribute, whereas a sign is a particular thing. Again, the sensible is one of the things which exist by way of difference, while the sign belongs to the category of relative. Nor is a sign an object of thought, for objects of thought are of four kinds, apparent judgements on things apparent, non-apparent judgements on things nonapparent, non-apparent on apparent, or apparent on non-apparent; and a sign is none of these, so 
1066. apparent on apparent,
1067.   

1068. In addition to this there is disagreement as to the criterion, some holding that man is the criterion, while for some it is the senses, for others reason, for others the apprehensive presentation. Now man disagrees with man and with himself, as is shown by differences of laws and customs. The senses deceive, and reason says different things. Finally, the apprehensive presentation is judged by the mind, and the mind itself changes in various ways. Hence the criterion is unknowable, and consequently truth also. 
1069.   

1070. Again, they would destroy the criterion by reasoning of this kind. Even the criterion has either been critically determined or not. If it has not, it is definitely untrustworthy, and in its purpose of distinguishing is no more true than false. If it has, it will belong to the class of particular judgements, so that one and the same thing determines and is determined, and the criterion which has determined will have to be determined by another, that other by another, and so on 
1071. ad infinitum.
1072. on his ability as a thinker or his artfulness, on the familiarity or the pleasantness of the topic. 
1073. We must not assume that what convinces us is actually true. For the same thing does not convince every one, nor even the same people always. Persuasiveness sometimes depends on external circumstances, on the reputation of the speaker, 
1074.   

1075. Therefore it is impossible to pronounce judgement on opinions about sensibles or intelligibles; and if the conflict in our thoughts compels us to disbelieve every one, the standard or measure, by which it is held that all things are exactly determined, will be destroyed, and we must deem every statement of equal value. Further, say they, our partner in an inquiry into a phenomenon is either to be trusted or not. If he is, he will have nothing to reply to the man to whom it appears to be the opposite
1076. e.g.
1077.   

1078. As for those who think that we should not judge of truth from surrounding circumstances or legislate on the basis of what is found in nature, these men, they used to say, made themselves the measure of all things, and did not see that every phenomenon appears in a certain disposition and in a certain reciprocal relation to surrounding circumstances. Therefore we must affirm either that all 
1079.   

1080. They declared the dogmatic philosophers to be fools, observing that what is concluded 
1081. ex hypothesi
1082. Nor must we prove that the elements are four from the fact that the elements are four. Besides, if we discredit particular demonstrations, we cannot accept the generalization from them. And in order that we may know that an argument constitutes a demonstration, we require a criterion; but again, in order that we may know that it is a criterion we require a demonstration; hence both the one and the other are incomprehensible, since each is referred to the other. How then are we to grasp the things which are uncertain, seeing that we know no demonstration? For what we wish to ascertain is not whether things appear to be such and such, but whether they are so in their essence. 
1083.   

1084. They would deny all demonstration, criterion, sign, cause, motion, the process of learning, coming into being, or that there is anything good or bad by nature. For all demonstration, say they, is constructed out of things either already proved or indemonstrable. If out of things already proved, those things too will require some demonstration, 
1085. Compare Sext. Emp. 
1086. The dogmatists assert that the sceptical arguments against demonstration are either demonstrative or non-demonstrative. If the latter, they fail to establish their point [namely, that there is no such thing as demonstration]; if the former, the Sceptics by assuming demonstration confute themselves.
1087. Pyrrh. Hyp.
1088. ad infinitum
1089.   

1090. The mode derived from relativity declares that a thing can never be apprehended in and by itself, but only in connexion with something else. Hence all things are unknowable. The mode resulting from hypothesis arises when people suppose that you must take the most elementary of things as of themselves entitled to credence, instead of postulating them: which is useless, because some one else will adopt the contrary hypothesis. The mode arising from reciprocal inference is found whenever that which should be confirmatory of the thing requiring to be proved itself has to borrow credit from the latter, as, for example, if anyone seeking to establish the existence of pores on the ground that emanations take place should take this (the existence of pores) as proof that there are emanations.
1091. This is what is commonly called arguing in a circle.
1092.   

1093. But Agrippa and his school add to them
1094. ad infinitum.
1095. ad infinitum
1096. ad infinitum
1097. Sext. Emp. 
1098. replace
1099. ὄγδοος ὁ ἀπὸ τοῦ πρός τι.
1100. Pyrrh. Hyp.
1101. Similarly father and brother are relative terms, day is relative to the sun, and all things relative to our mind. Thus relative terms are in and by themselves unknowable. These, then, are the ten modes of perplexity. 
1102.   

1103. The 
1104. e.g.
1105. tenth
1106. The 
1107. As contrasted, 
1108. Pyrrh. Hyp.
1109. cf.
1110. e.g.
1111. ninth
1112.   

1113. The 
1114. eighth
1115. Furthermore, the sun at its rising has a certain appearance, but has a dissimilar appearance when in mid-heaven, and the same body one appearance in a wood and another in open country. The image again varies according to the position of the object, and a dove’s neck according to the way it is turned. Since, then, it is not possible to observe these things apart from places and positions, their real nature is unknowable. 
1116.   

1117. The 
1118. seventh
1119. Again, a rock which in air takes two men to lift is easily moved about in water, either because, being in reality heavy, it is lifted by the water or because, being light, it is made heavy by the air. Of its own inherent property we know nothing, any more than of the constituent oils in an ointment. 
1120.   

1121. The 
1122. sixth
1123. Different people believe in different gods; some in providence, others not. In burying their dead, the Egyptians embalm them; the Romans burn them; the Paeonians throw them into lakes. As to what is true, then, let suspension of judgement be our practice. 
1124.   

1125. The 
1126. Voyage round the World
1127. fifth
1128.   

1129. The 
1130. fourth
1131.   

1132. The 
1133. third
1134. Andron of Argos is reported by Aristotle
1135. Fr. 103 Rose.
1136.   

1137. The 
1138. second
1139. Some are distinguished in one way, some in another, and for this reason they differ in their senses also, hawks for instance being most keen-sighted, and dogs having a most acute sense of smell. It is natural that if the senses, 
1140. e.g.
1141.   

1142. The 
1143. first
1144. Perplexities arise from the agreements
1145. Pyrrh. Hyp.
1146. Cf.
1147. If, however, with Reiske we here read 
1148. The objections urged 
1149. against
1150. τὰς,
1151. τῆς
1152. They showed, then, on the basis of that which is contrary to what induces belief, that the probabilities on both sides are equal. 
1153.   

1154. Thus the Pyrrhonean principle, as Aenesidemus says in the introduction to his 
1155. Pyrrhonics
1156.   

1157. This the dogmatists answer by saying that they do [not merely] not deny the statement, but even plainly assert it. So they were merely using the words as servants, as it was not possible not to refute one statement by another; just as we
1158. Here (as in § 104) the writer, whether D. L or his source, seems to pose as a Sceptic himself; 
1159. cf.
1160.   

1161. But the Sceptics even refute the statement 
1162. supra
1163. Every saying has its corresponding opposite
1164. i.e.
1165. Every saying, etc.,
1166. Pytho
1167. Not more (one thing than another)
1168. Not more (one thing than another).
1169.   

1170. But 
1171. Virtue profits more than it harms,
1172. Honey is more sweet than grapes
1173. More so
1174. Neither had more existence, Scylla or the Chimaera.
1175. The pirate is no more wicked than the liar.
1176. Not more (one thing than another)
1177.   

1178. The Sceptics, then, were constantly engaged
1179. Every saying has its corresponding opposite,
1180. Not more (one thing than another),
1181. We determine nothing
1182. Inf.
1183. We determine nothing,
1184. διετέλουν,
1185.   

1186. And the saying which thou sayest, back it cometh later on thee, 
1187. Ample is of words the pasture, hither thither widely ranging; 
1188. Pliant is the tongue of mortals; numberless the tales within it;
1189. Il.
1190. Fr. 47 D., 48 B.
1191. Let us not conjecture on deepest questions what is likely.
1192. Each believes naught but his experience.
1193. Ib.
1194. So to these mortal may not list nor look 

1195. Fr. 2, l. 7.
1196. Who knoweth if to die be but to live, 

1197.   

1198. Furthermore, they find Xenophanes, Zeno of Elea, and Democritus to be sceptics: Xenophanes because he says,
1199. Nauck, 
1200. Polyid.
1201. Eur.
1202. 2
1203. T.G.F.
1204. Tim.
1205. This proverbial expression is inadequate; a more literal rendering of 
1206. in an abyss.
1207. ἐν βύθῳ
1208. Of a truth we know nothing, for truth is in a well.
1209. Opinion says hot or cold, but the reality is atoms and empty space,
1210. A moving body moves neither where it is nor where it is not
1211. Clear truth hath no man seen nor e’er shall know;
1212. Fr. 34 D.
1213.   

1214. Some call Homer the founder of this school, for to the same questions he more than anyone else is  
1215. Great God ! how can they say poor mortal men  

1216. Supplices
1217. Man’s soul, O Glaucus, son of Leptines,  

1218. Fr. 70 B.
1219. A pledge is a curse at one’s elbow,
1220. Observe the Golden Mean,
1221.   

1222. Zetetics or seekers because they were ever seeking truth, Sceptics or inquirers because they were always looking for a solution and never finding one, Ephectics or doubters because of the state of mind which followed their inquiry, I mean, suspense of judgement, and finally Aporetics or those in perplexity, for not only they but even the dogmatic philosophers themselves in their turn were often perplexed. Pyrrhoneans, of course, they were called from Pyrrho. Theodosius in his 
1223. Sceptic Chapters
1224.   

1225. Besides these, Pyrrho’s pupils included Hecataeus of Abdera, Timon of Phlius, author of the 
1226. Silli
1227. Philo, again, who had a habit of very often talking to himself, is also referred to in the lines
1228. Yea, him that is far away from men, at leisure to himself,  

1229. Od.
1230. Cf.
1231. Once in Elis he was so hard pressed by his pupils’ questions that he stripped 
1232.   

1233. Posidonius, too, relates of him a story of this sort. When his fellow-passengers on board a ship were all unnerved by a storm, he kept calm and confident, pointing to a little pig in the ship that went on eating, and telling them that such was the unperturbed state in which the wise man should keep himself. Numenius alone attributes to him positive tenets. He had pupils of repute, in particular one Eurylochus, who fell short of his professions; for they say that he was once so angry that he seized the spit with the meat on it and chased his cook right into the market-place. 
1234.   

1235. They say that, when septic salves and surgical and caustic remedies were applied to a wound he had sustained, he did not so much as frown. Timon 
1236. Here, it would seem, the materials which can be traced to Antigonus of Carystus come to an end. The source of the long passage §§ 69-108, with which must go the Sceptical Succession, §§ 115-116, is not obvious. It may be supposed that D. L. with his seeming partiality for the school (
1237. the commentary of Apollonides on the 
1238. Silli
1239. cf.
1240. Ay, friend, die thou; why thus thy fate deplore?  

1241. Il.
1242. As leaves on trees, such is the life of man.
1243. Il.
1244.   

1245. He lived in fraternal piety with his sister, a midwife, so says Eratosthenes in his essay 
1246. On Wealth and Poverty
1247.   

1248. Athens honoured him with her citizenship, says Diocles, for having slain the Thracian Cotys. 
1249. This, Pyrrho, this my heart is fain to know,

1250. Fr. 67 D.
1251. Conceits
1252. O Pyrrho, O aged Pyrrho, whence and how  

1253.   

1254. Moreover, there were many who emulated his 
1255. Od.
1256. Il.
1257. Fr. 48 D.
1258. Silli
1259. The citation from the 
1260. Pytho
1261. Pytho
1262. On being discovered once talking to himself, he answered, when asked the reason, that he was training to be good. In debate he was looked down upon by no one, for he could both discourse at length and also sustain a cross-examination, so that even Nausiphanes when a young man was captivated by him: at all events he used to say that we should follow Pyrrho in disposition but himself in doctrine; and he would often remark that Epicurus, greatly admiring Pyrrho’s way of life, regularly asked him for information about Pyrrho; and that he was so respected by his native city that they made him high priest, and on his account they voted that all philosophers should be exempt from taxation. 
1263.   

1264. He would withdraw from the world and live in solitude, rarely showing himself to his relatives; this he did because he had heard an Indian reproach Anaxarchus, telling him that he would never be able to teach others what is good while he himself danced attendance on kings in their courts. He would maintain the same composure at all times, so that, even if you left him when he was in the middle of a speech, he would finish what he had to say with no audience but himself, although in his youth he had been hasty.
1265. sang-froid.
1266. Here Diels would insert in the text words which would make the meaning 
1267. easily moved by the applause of the crowd and ambitious of fame.
1268.   

1269. This is what Antigonus of Carystus says of Pyrrho in his book upon him. At first he was a poor and unknown painter, and there are still some indifferent 
1270. He led a life consistent with this doctrine, going out of his way for nothing, taking no precaution, but facing all risks as they came, whether carts, precipices, dogs or what not, and, generally, leaving nothing to the arbitrament of the senses; but he was kept out of harm’s way by his friends who, as Antigonus of Carystus tells us, used to follow close after him. But Aenesidemus says that it was only his philosophy that was based upon suspension of judgement, and that he did not lack foresight in his everyday acts. He lived to be nearly ninety. 
1271.  
	
1272. Pyrrho of Elis was the son of Pleistarchus, as Diocles relates. According to Apollodorus in his 
1273. i.e.
1274. Successions of Philosophers.
1275. For 
1276. under Bryson or Stilpo.
1277. Philolog.
1278. βρύσωνος ἢ Στίλπωνος
1279. Stilpo’s son Bryson
1280. Chronology
1281. Chapter 11. PYRRHO (c. 360-270 b.c.)
1282. 

1283.   

1284. For his fortitude and contentment in life he was called the Happy Man. He had, too, the capacity of bringing anyone to reason in the easiest possible way. At all events he succeeded in diverting Alexander when he had begun to think himself a god; for, seeing blood running from a wound he had sustained, he pointed to him with his finger and said, 
1285. One of the gods shall fall by the stroke of mortal man.
1286. Euripides, 
1287. Orestes
1288. Vit. Alex.
1289. Il.
1290. Ichor which courses in the veins of the blessed gods.
1291. See, there is blood and not 
1292.   

1293. This was a hit at Nicocreon, who never forgot it, and when after the king’s death Anaxarchus was forced against his will to land in Cyprus, he seized him and, putting him in a mortar, ordered him to be pounded to death with iron pestles. But he, making light of the punishment, made that well-known speech, 
1294. Pound, Nicocreon, as hard as you like: it is but a pouch. Pound on; Anaxarchus’s self long since is housed with Zeus. And after she has drawn you upon her carding-combs a little while, Persephone will utter words like these: 
1295. Out upon thee, villainous miller !
1296. Anth. Pal.
1297. Pound, pound the pouch containing Anaxarchus; ye pound not Anaxarchus.
1298.  

1299. Anaxarchus, a native of Abdera, studied under Diogenes of Smyrna,
1300. Everything, O king, is magnificent; there is only one thing lacking, that the head of some satrap should be served up at table.
1301. 340-337 b.c.
1302. Here a Diogenes is mentioned as a link between Demo critus and Anaxarchus. See p. 468, note 
1303. De fide
1304. Δημοκρίτου δὲ ἀκουσταὶ Πρωταγόρας ὁ Ἀβδηρίτης καὶ Μητρόδωρος ὁ Χίος, οὗ Διογένης ὁ Σμυρναῖος, οὗ Ἀνάξαρχος, τούτου δὲ Πύρρων, οὗ Ναυσιφάνης;
1305. Strom.
1306. c. Cf.
1307. Chapter 10. ANAXARCHUS
1308. 

1309.  
	
1310. The words with which his treatise begins are these: 
1311. At the beginning of every discourse I consider that one ought to make the starting-point unmistakably clear and the exposition simple and dignified.
1312. The doctrines of Diogenes were as follows.
1313. Diels (
1314. Phys. Opin.
1315. Praep. Evang.
1316. Strom.
1317. op. cit.
1318. Diogenes of Apollonia, son of Apollothemis, was a natural philosopher and a most famous man. Antisthenes 
1319. Defence of Socrates.
1320. i.e.
1321. Chapter 9. DIOGENES OF APOLLONIA 
1322. We naturally feel surprise when this early philosopher is interpolated between Protagoras and Anaxarchus, both assumed to be pupils of Democritus. The only explanation suggested is a severe reflection on our author’s acquaintance with his subject. There was a certain Diogenes of Smyrna, an obscure adherent of the school of Abdera. D. L., or more probably one of his authorities, has confused this Democritean with the earlier and better-known Diogenes of Apollonia. It is also strange that there is no Life of Metrodorus of Chios or of Nausiphanes.
1323. 

1324.   

1325. There was another Protagoras, an astronomer, for whom Euphorion wrote a dirge; and a third who was a Stoic philosopher. 
1326. The story is told that once, when he asked Euathlus his disciple for his fee, the latter replied, 
1327. if I win this case against you I must have the fee, for winning it; if you win, I must have it, because 
1328. you
1329. Nay,
1330. But I have not won a case yet.
1331. There is an epigram of my own on him as follows
1332. Protagoras, I hear it told of thee  

1333. Anth. Pal.
1334. According to some his death occurred, when he was on a journey, at nearly ninety years of age, though Apollodorus makes his age seventy, assigns forty years for his career as a sophist, and puts his 
1335. 444-441 b.c.
1336. floruit
1337.   

1338. Philochorus says that, when he was on a voyage to Sicily, his ship went down, and that Euripides hints at this in his 
1339. Ixion.
1340. The works of his which survive are these: 

1341. That the list is defective is evident from the fact that the two works by which Protagoras is best known (
1342. supra
1343.   

1344. The first of his books he read in public was that 
1345. On the Gods
1346. others divide into seven parts, narration, question, answer, command, rehearsal, wish, summoning; these he called the basic forms of speech. Alcidamas made discourse fourfold, affirmation, negation, question, address. 
1347.   

1348. He too first introduced the method of discussion which is called Socratic. Again, as we learn from Plato in the 
1349. This answers roughly to the optative, the indicative, and the imperative.
1350. cf.
1351. Περὶ ἐπιτηδευμάτων,
1352. Sc.
1353. On Education
1354. In Reply to Chrysippus.
1355. 286 c.
1356. Euthydemus
1357.   

1358. He was the first to exact a fee of a hundred minae and the first to distinguish the tenses of verbs, to emphasize the importance of seizing the right moment, to institute contests in debating, and to teach rival pleaders the tricks of their trade. Furthermore, in his dialectic he neglected the meaning in favour of verbal quibbling, and he was the father of the whole tribe of eristical disputants now so much in evidence; insomuch that Timon
1359. Protagoras, all mankind’s epitome, 

1360. Il.
1361. Cf.
1362. Fr. 47 D.
1363. For this introduction to his book the Athenians expelled him; and they burnt his works in the market-place, after sending round a herald to collect them from all who had copies in their possession. 
1364.   

1365. Protagoras was the first to maintain that there are two sides to every question, opposed to each other, and he even argued in this fashion, being the first to do so. Furthermore he began a work thus: 
1366. As to the gods, I have no means of knowing either that they exist or that they do not exist. For many are the obstacles that impede knowledge, both the obscurity of the question and the shortness of human life.
1367. 152 a 
1368. sq.
1369. Theaetetus
1370. Man is the measure of all things, of things that are that they are, and of things that are not that they 
1371.  
	
1372. Protagoras, son of Artemon or, according to Apollodorus and Dinon in the fifth book of his 
1373. Miscellaneous History.
1374. Wisdom,
1375. Δημόκριτος.
1376. s.v.
1377. Strom.
1378. Cf.
1379. 316 a.
1380. Protagoras
1381. Inside we’ve got Protagoras of Teos.
1382. Flatterers
1383. On Laws
1384. History of Persia
1385. Chapter 8. PROTAGORAS (481-411 b.c.)
1386. 

1387.   

1388. The name of Democritus has been borne by six persons: (1) our philosopher; (2) a contemporary of his, a musician of Chios; (3) a sculptor, mentioned by Antigonus; (4) an author who wrote on the temple at Ephesus and the state of Samothrace; (5) an epigrammatist whose style is lucid and ornate; (6) a native of Pergamum who made his mark by rhetorical speeches. 
1389. The other works which some attribute to Democritus 
1390. Some include as separate items in the list the following works taken from his notes: 

1391. προβλήματα.
1392. ἢ
1393. χερνικά,
1394. finger-bowls,
1395. χέρνιβα,
1396. N.H.
1397. χειρόκμητα
1398.   

1399. The works on the arts are these:  

1400. The literary and musical works are these:  

1401.   

1402. The mathematical works are these:

1403. Diels compares Ptolemy, 
1404. Projection of an armillary sphere on a plane.
1405. Ἐκπετάσματα
1406. ὑπογραφὴ τοῦ ἐκπετάσματος. ὑπογραφ ὴ δʼ ἔσται καὶ τῆς τοιαύτης ἐκπετάς εως ἁρμόζουσά τε καὶ κεφαλα ιώδης. ἡ τοιαύτη τῆς κρικωτῆς σφαίρας ἐπιπέδῳ καταγραφή κτλ.
1407. Geogr.
1408. The following fall under no head: 

1409.   

1410. The physical works are these:  

1411. The ethical works are the following: 

1412.   

1413. Of his works Thrasylus has made an ordered catalogue, arranging them in fours, as he also arranged Plato’s works. 
1414. All things happen by virtue of necessity, the vortex being the cause of the creation of all things, and this he calls necessity. The end of action is tranquillity, which is not identical with pleasure, as some by a false interpretation have understood, but a state in which the soul continues calm and strong, undisturbed by any fear or superstition or any other emotion. This he calls well-being and many other names. The qualities of things exist merely by convention; in nature there is nothing but atoms and void space. These, then, are his opinions. 
1415.   

1416. His opinions are these. The first principles of the universe are atoms and empty space; everything else is merely thought to exist. The worlds are unlimited; they come into being and perish. Nothing can come into being from that which is not 
1417. i.e.
1418.   

1419. In my 
1420. Pray who was so wise, who wrought so vast a work as the omniscient Democritus achieved? When Death was near, for three days he kept him in his house and regaled him with the steam of hot loaves. 
1421. Anth. Pal.
1422. Pammetros
1423. Of the death of Democritus the account given by Hermippus is as follows. When he was now very old and near his end, his sister was vexed that he seemed likely to die during the festival of Thesmophoria and she would be prevented from paying the fitting worship to the goddess. He bade her be of good cheer and ordered hot loaves to be brought to him every day. By applying these to his nostrils he contrived to outlive the festival; and as soon as the three festival days were passed he let his life go from him without pain, having then, according to Hipparchus, attained his one hundred and ninth year. 
1424.   

1425. Athenodorus in the eighth book of his 
1426. Good morning, woman,
1427. Good morning, maiden,
1428. Walks
1429. Again, he alludes to the doctrine of the One held by Parmenides and Zeno, they being evidently the persons most talked about in his day; he also mentions Protagoras of Abdera, who, it is admitted, was a contemporary of Socrates. 
1430.   
	
1431. As regards chronology, he was, as he says himself in the 
1432. 470-469 b.c.
1433. Prolegomena to the Reading of the works of Democritus
1434. 460-457 b.c.
1435. Chronology
1436. Lesser Diacosmos
1437. Lesser Diacosmos
1438.   

1439. Aristoxenus in his 
1440. Such is the wise Democritus, the guardian of discourse, keen-witted disputant, among the best I ever read.
1441. Il.
1442. Cf.
1443. Fr. 46 D.
1444. Historical Notes
1445. Demetrius, however, says that it was not Democritus himself but his relatives who read the 
1446. Great Diacosmos
1447.   

1448. The same authority states that, when he returned from his travels, he was reduced to a humble mode of life because he had exhausted his means; and, because of his poverty, he was supported by his brother Damasus. But his reputation rose owing to his having foretold certain future events; and after that the public deemed him worthy of the honour paid to a god.
1449. Great Diacosmos
1450. Strom.
1451. N.H.
1452. Cf.
1453. oratio recta
1454. ὡς δὲ προειπών . . . ἠξιώθη.
1455.   

1456. He would train himself, says Antisthenes, by a variety of means to test his sense-impressions by going at times into solitude and frequenting tombs. 
1457. His character can also be seen from his writings. 
1458. to have been an admirer of the Pythagoreans. Moreover, he mentions Pythagoras himself, praising him in a work of his own entitled 
1459.  § 46.
1460. Pythagoras
1461. He would seem,
1462.   
	
1463. Defence of Socrates
1464. Speech is the shadow of action.
1465. Democritus will be the unnamed character, different from Oenopides and Anaxagoras, who makes his appearance when conversation is going on with Socrates about philosophy, and to whom Socrates says that the philosopher is like the all-round athlete.
1466. Rivals
1467. If the 
1468. Rivals
1469.   

1470. Demetrius estimates his share at over 100 talents, the whole of which he spent. His industry, says the same author, was so great that he cut off a little room in the garden round the house and shut himself up there. One day his father brought an ox to sacrifice and tied it there, and he was not aware of it for a considerable time, 
1471. It would seem that he also went to Athens and was not anxious to be recognized, because he despised fame, and that while he knew of Socrates, he was not known to Socrates, his words being, 
1472. I came to Athens and no one knew me.
1473. 

1474. According to Demetrius in his book on 
1475. Successions of Philosophers
1476. Men of the Same Name
1477. Democritus also pulled to pieces the views of Anaxagoras on cosmogony and on mind, having a spite against him, because Anbaxagoras did not take to him. If this be so, how could he have been his pupil, as some suggest? 
1478.  
	
1479. Democritus was the son of Hegesistratus, though some say of Athenocritus, and others again of Damasippus. He was a native of Abdera or, according to some, of Miletus. He was a pupil of certain Magians and Chaldaeans. For when King 
1480. Miscellaneous History
1481. Diels remarks that this is a free interpretation of Hdt. vii. 109, viii. 120.
1482. Chapter 7. DEMOCRITUS(? 460-357 B.C.)
1483. 
	
1484.   

1485. The orbit of the sun is the outermost, that of the moon nearest to the earth; the orbits of the other heavenly bodies lie between these two. All the stars are set on fire by the speed of their motion; the burning of the sun is also helped by the stars; the moon is only slightly kindled. The sun and the moon are eclipsed [when ..., but the obliquity of the zodiacal circle is due
1486. So Diels; but see T. L. Heath, 
1487. Dox. Gr.
1488. Cf.
1489. the obliquity of the circles of the stars.
1490. Aristarchus
1491.   

1492. In this way the earth is formed by portions brought to the centre coalescing. And again, even the outer shell grows larger by the influx of atoms from outside, and, as it is carried round in the vortex, adds to itself whatever atoms it touches. And of these some portions are locked together and form a mass, at first damp and miry, but, when they have dried and revolve with the universal vortex, they afterwards take fire and form the substance of the stars. 
1493. This parts off like a shell, enclosing within it atoms of all kinds; and, as these are whirled round by virtue of the resistance of the centre, the enclosing shell becomes thinner, the adjacent atoms continually combining when they touch the vortex. 
1494.   

1495. He declares the All to be unlimited, as already stated; but of the All part is full and part empty,
1496. By the 
1497. empty,
1498. full
1499.  

1500. Leucippus was born at Elea, but some say at Abdera and others at Miletus. He was a pupil of Zeno. His views were these. The sum of things 
1501. Chapter 6. LEUCIPPUS
1502. With the account of Leucippus and Democritus Diels (
1503. Phys. Opin.
1504. Ref. Haeres.
1505. op. cit.
1506. 

1507.   

1508. The fact that there were eight men of the name of Zeno we have already mentioned under Zeno of Citium.
1509. 464-460 b.c.
1510. vii. 35.
1511. We are told that once when he was reviled he lost his temper, and, in reply to some one who blamed him for this, he said, 
1512. A similar answer is ascribed to Empedocles in 
1513. Gnomologion Parisinum
1514. If when I am abused I pretend that I am not, then neither shall I be aware of it if I am praised.
1515. He was the first to propound the argument of the 
1516. Achilles,
1517.   

1518. In all other respects Zeno was a gallant man; and in particular he despised the great no less than 
1519. Of him also I have written as follows
1520. You wished, Zeno, and noble was your wish, to slay the tyrant and set Elea free from bondage. But you were crushed; for, as all know, the tyrant caught you and beat you in a mortar. But what is this that I say? It was your body that he beat, and not you.
1521. Anth. Pal.
1522.   
	
1523. Demetrius in his work on 
1524. The heroic death of Zeno and his defiance of the tyrant furnished a theme for various writers; 
1525. Strom.
1526. Cf.
1527. De Stoicorum repugn.
1528. De garrulitate
1529. Adv. Col.
1530. cf.
1531. I marvel at your cowardice, that, for fear of any of those things which I am now enduring, you should be the tyrant’s slaves.
1532. Yes, you, the curse of the city!
1533. Successions of Philosophers,
1534. Men of the Same Name
1535.   

1536. He was a truly noble character both as philosopher and as politician; at all events, his extant books are brimful of intellect. Again, he plotted to overthrow Nearchus the tyrant (or, according to others, Diomedon) but was arrested: so Heraclides in his epitome of Satyrus. On that occasion he was crossexamined as to his accomplices and about the arms 
1537.  
	
1538. Zeno, then, was all through a pupil of Parmenides and his bosom friend. He was tall in stature, as Plato says in his 
1539. 261 d.
1540. Phaedrus
1541. p. 216 a.
1542. Sophist,
1543. 127 b.
1544. Parmenides.
1545. Zeno was a citizen of Elea. Apollodorus in his 
1546. Great Zeno’s strength which, never known to fail,  

1547. Il.
1548. Cf.
1549. Fr. 45 D.
1550. Chronology
1551. Chapter 5. ZENO OF ELEA
1552. 

1553.  

1554. According to Apollodorus, he flourished in the 84th Olympiad.
1555. 444-440 b.c.
1556. In his view the universe was unlimited, unchangeable and immovable, and was one, uniform 
1557. Melissus, the son of Ithaegenes, was a native of Samos. He was a pupil of Parmenides. Moreover he came into relations with Heraclitus, on which occasion the latter was introduced by him to the Ephesians, who did not know him,
1558. Cf. supra
1559. Chapter 4. MELISSUS
1560. 
	
1561.   

1562. There was also another Parmenides, a rhetorician who wrote a treatise on his art. 
1563. He flourished in the 69th Olympiad.
1564. Miscellaneous History.
1565. Achilles [and the tortoise]
1566. On Philosophers.
1567. Memorabilia
1568. 504-500 b.c.
1569. Hence Timon
1570. Parmenides or Concerning Ideas.
1571. And the strength of high-souled Parmenides, of no diverse opinions, who introduced thought instead of imagination’s deceit.
1572. Od.
1573. Cf.
1574. Fr. 44 D.
1575.   
	
1576. Our philosopher too commits his doctrines to verse just as did Hesiod, Xenophanes and Empedocles. He made reason the standard and pronounced sensations to be inexact. At all events his words are
1577. And let not long-practised wont force thee to tread this path, to be governed by an aimless eye, an echoing ear and a tongue, but do thou with understanding bring the muchcontested issue to decision.
1578. Fr. 1. 34 D.
1579. The generation of man proceeded from the sun as first cause; heat and cold, of which all things consist, surpass the sun itself. Again he held that soul and mind are one and the same, as Theophrastus mentions in his 
1580. Thou must needs learn all things, as well the unshakeable heart of well-rounded truth as the opinions of mortals in which there is no sure trust.
1581. The text of Parmenides had suffered in the course of time. Here Laertius, like Sextus Empiricus and Plutarch, read 
1582. De caelo
1583. εὐφεγγέος;
1584. εὐπειθέος ἀτρεκὲς;
1585. Fr. 1. 28 D.
1586. Physics,
1587.  
	
1588. He was the first to declare that the earth is spherical and is situated in the centre of the universe. He held that there were two elements, fire and earth, and that the former discharged the function of a craftsman, the latter of his material. 
1589. and on his death he built a shrine to him, being himself of illustrious birth and possessed of great wealth; moreover it was Ameinias and not Xenophanes who led him to adopt the peaceful life of a student. 
1590. Parmenides, a native of Elea, son of Pyres, was a pupil of Xenophanes (Theophrastus in his 
1591. Sotion would thus appear to separate Parmenides from Xenophanes. Compare note 
1592. a
1593. Diels considers this sentence to be a marginal note of an editor referring to Xenophanes, not Parmenides.
1594. Epitome
1595. Chapter 3. PARMENIDES
1596. Diels (
1597. Phys. Opin.
1598. Strom.
1599. Ref. Haer.
1600. op. cit.
1601. 
	
1602.   

1603. Such were the 
1604. sporadic
1605. One of his poems is 
1606. Memorabilia.
1607. Of Cheerfulness.
1608. On Old Age
1609. ii. 13.
1610. 540-537 b.c.
1611. The Settlement of a Colony at Elea in Italy
1612. The Founding of Colophon
1613. He also said that the mass of things falls short of thought; and again that our encounters with tyrants should be as few, or else as pleasant, as possible. When Empedocles remarked to him that it is impossible to find a wise man, 
1614. It would be rash to infer from this single notice, that Sotion, considering Xenophanes a Sceptic, did not derive him from the Pythagoreans through Telauges.
1615. for it takes a wise man to recognize a wise man.
1616. Naturally,
1617.   

1618. He holds that there are four elements of existent things, and worlds unlimited in number but not overlapping [in time]. Clouds are formed when the vapour from the sun is carried upwards and lifts them into the surrounding air. The substance of God is spherical, in no way resembling man. He is all eye and all ear, but does not breathe; he is the totality of mind and thought, and is eternal. Xenophanes was the first to declare that everything which comes into being is doomed to perish, and that the soul is breath.
1619. (Fr. 
1620. Strom.
1621. 22, ap.
1622. εὐσεβὴς νόῳ πεφυκὼς οὐ πάθοις κʼ οὐδὲν κακὸν κατθαν ών· ἄνω τὸ πνεῦμα διαμεν εῖ κατʼ οὐρανόν.
1623. Presumably followed by Epicharmus when he wrote 
1624. Seven and sixty are now the years that have been tossing my cares up and down the land of Greece; and there were then twenty and five years more from my birth up, if I know how to speak truly about these things.
1625.  

1626. Xenophanes, a native of Colophon, the son of Dexius, or, according to Apollodorus, of Orthomenes, is praised by Timon, whose words at all events are: 

1627. Fr. 8 D.
1628. Possibly the same Boton who taught Theramenes rhetoric. If so, D. L. (or his authority) may have transferred to Xenophanes an excerpt intended for Xenophon. See the note of Diels, 
1629. Fr. d. Vors.
1630. Xenophanes, not over-proud, perverter of Homer, castigator. 
1631. Chapter 2. XENOPHANES
1632. Diels (
1633. Phys. Opin.
1634. Strom.
1635. Ref. Haer.
1636. Dox. Gr.
1637. 

1638.   

1639. Five men have borne the name of Heraclitus: (1) our philosopher; (2) a lyric poet, who wrote a hymn of praise to the twelve gods; (3) an elegiac 
1640. From Cory’s 
1641. Nightingales
1642. One told me of thy death, Heraclitus, and moved me to tears, when I remembered how often we two watched the sun go down upon our talk. But though thou, I ween, my Halicarnassian friend, art dust long, long ago, yet do thy 
1643. Nightingales
1644. Ionica
1645. Anth. Pal.
1646.   

1647. Another runs as follows
1648. Do not be in too great a hurry to get to the end of Heraclitus the Ephesian’s book: the path is hard to travel. Gloom is there and darkness devoid of light. But if an initiate be your guide, the path shines brighter than sunlight. 
1649. Anth. Pal.
1650. Hieronymus tells us that Scythinus, the satirical poet, undertook to put the discourse of Heraclitus into verse. He is the subject of many epigrams, and amongst them of this one
1651. Heraclitus am I. Why do ye drag me up and down, ye illiterate? It was not for you I toiled, but for such as understand me. One man in my sight is a match for thirty thousand, but the countless hosts do not make a single one. This I proclaim, yea in the halls of Persephone. 
1652. Anth. Pal.
1653.   

1654. Demetrius, in his book on 
1655. Apparently D. L. is using, through another of his sources, the very same citation from Diodotus which he has given verbatim in § 12.
1656. This work is again quoted in ix. 37 and ix. 57, and is perhaps the source of the first sentence of § 52 also.
1657. Defence of Socrates
1658. Men of the Same Name
1659.  

1660. So independent was he even when dealing with a king. 
1661. All men upon earth hold aloof from truth and justice, while, by reason of wicked folly, they devote themselves to avarice and thirst for popularity. But I, being forgetful of all wickedness, shunning the general satiety which is closely joined with envy, and because I have a horror of splendour, could not come to Persia, being content with little, when that little is to my mind.
1662. Heraclitus of Ephesus to King Darius, son of Hystaspes, greeting.
1663. For the Greeks as a rule are not prone to mark their wise men; nay, they neglect their excellent precepts which make for good hearing and learning. But at my court there is secured for you every privilege and daily conversation of a good and worthy kind, and a life in keeping with your counsels.
1664.   

1665. You are the author of a treatise 
1666. On Nature
1667. King Darius, son of Hystaspes, to Heraclitus the wise man of Ephesus, greeting. 
1668.   

1669. However, Seleucus the grammarian says that a certain Croton relates in his book called 
1670. The request of Darius is mentioned by Clem. Alex. 
1671. οὗτος βασιλέα Δαρεῖον παρακαλοῦντα ἥκειν εἰς Πέρσας ὑπερεῖδεν.
1672. Strom.
1673. Why, to let you chatter.
1674. a guide of conduct, the keel of the whole world, for one and all alike.
1675. A helm unerring for the rule of life; 
1676. Nauck, 
1677. Adesp.
1678. 2
1679. T.G.F.
1680. Concerning Nature
1681. Plato, alluding to Heraclitus, speaks of 
1682. ad loc.
1683. cf.
1684. Musae
1685. αἱ γοῦν Ἰάδες Μοῦσαι διαρρήδην λέγουσι
1686. Strom.
1687. Soph.
1688. Ionian Muses
1689. The Muses
1690. The Diver
1691. 

1692. The story told by Ariston of Socrates, and his remarks when he came upon the book of Heraclitus, which Euripides brought him, I have mentioned in my Life of Socrates.
1693. ii. 22.
1694. Thus the bright exhalation, set aflame in the hollow orb of the sun, produces day, the opposite exhalation when it has 
1695.   

1696. The flame of the sun is the brightest and the hottest; the other stars are further from the earth and for that reason give it less light and heat. The moon, which is nearer to the earth, traverses a region which is not pure. The sun, however, moves in a clear and untroubled region, and keeps a proportionate distance from us. That is why it gives us more heat and light. Eclipses of the sun and moon occur when the bowls are turned upwards; the monthly phases of the moon are due to the bowl turning round in its place little by little. Day and night, months, seasons and years, rains and winds and other similar phenomena are accounted for by the various exhalations.
1697.   

1698. For fire by contracting turns into moisture, and this condensing turns into water; water again when congealed turns into earth. This process he calls the downward path. Then again earth is liquefied, and thus gives rise to water, and from water the rest of the series is derived. He reduces nearly everything to exhalation from the sea. This process is the upward path. Exhalations arise from earth as well as from sea; those from sea are bright and pure, those from earth dark. Fire is fed by the bright exhalations, the moist element by the others. He does not make clear the nature of the surrounding element. He says, however, that there are in it bowls with their concavities turned towards us, in which the bright exhalations collect and produce flames. These are the stars. 
1699.   

1700. Coming now to his particular tenets, we may state them as follows: fire is the element, all things are exchange for fire and come into being by rarefaction and condensation
1701. Cf.
1702. Cf.
1703.   

1704. Here is a general summary of his doctrines. All things are composed of fire, and into fire they are again resolved; further, all things come about by destiny, and existent things are brought into harmony by the clash of opposing currents; again, all things are filled with souls and divinities. He has also given an account of all the orderly happenings in the universe, and declares the sun to be no larger than it appears. Another of his sayings is: 
1705. Fr. 46 D., 132 B.
1706. Fr. 45 D., 71 B.
1707. Of soul thou shalt never find boundaries, not if thou trackest it on every path; so deep is its cause.
1708.   

1709. Theophrastus puts it down to melancholy that some parts of his work are half-finished, while other parts make a strange medley. As a proof of his magnanimity Antisthenes in his 
1710. Successions of  Philosophers
1711. This book he deposited in the temple of Artemis and, according to some, he deliberately made it the more obscure in order that none but adepts should approach it, and lest familiarity should breed contempt. Of our philosopher Timon
1712. In their midst uprose shrill, cuckoo-like, a mob-reviler, riddling Heraclitus.
1713. Il.
1714. Cf.
1715. Fr. 43 D.
1716.   

1717. As to the work which passes as his, it is a continuous treatise 
1718. On Nature
1719. He was exceptional from his boyhood; for when a youth he used to say that he knew nothing, although when he was grown up he claimed that he knew everything. He was nobody’s pupil, but he declared that he 
1720. On Heraclitus
1721. Fr. 101 D., 80 B.
1722. inquired of himself,
1723.   

1724. Hermippus, too, says that he asked the doctors whether anyone could by emptying the intestines draw off the moisture; and when they said it was 
1725. There is a piece of my own about him as follows
1726. Often have I wondered how it came about that Heraclitus endured to live in this miserable fashion and then to die. For a fell disease flooded his body with water, quenched the light in his eyes and brought on darkness. 
1727. Anth. Pal.
1728.   

1729. Finally, he became a hater of his kind and wandered on the mountains, and there he continued to live, making his diet of grass and herbs. However, when this gave him dropsy, he made his way back to the city and put this riddle to the physicians, whether they were competent to create a drought after heavy rain. They could make nothing of this, whereupon he buried himself in a cowshed, expecting that the noxious damp humour would be drawn out of him by the warmth of the manure. But, as even this was of no avail, he died at the age of sixty. 
1730. He would retire to the temple of Artemis and play at knuckle-bones with the boys; and when the Ephesians stood round him and looked on, 
1731. are you astonished? Is it not better to do this than to take part in your civil life?
1732. Why, you rascals,
1733.   

1734. Again he would say: 
1735. Fr. 121 D., 114 B.
1736. The Ephesians 
1737. We will have none who is worthiest among us; or if there be any such, let him go elsewhere and consort with others.
1738. Fr. 44 D., 100 B.
1739. The people must fight for the law as for citywalls.
1740. Fr. 43 D., 103 B.
1741. There is more need to extinguish insolence than an outbreak of fire,
1742.  

1743. Heraclitus, son of Bloson or, according to some, of Heracon, was a native of Ephesus. He flourished in the 69th Olympiad.
1744. Fr. 42 D., 119 B.
1745. Homer deserved to be chased out of the lists and beaten with rods, and Archilochus likewise.
1746. Fr. 41 D., 19 B.
1747. this one thing is wisdom, to understand thought, as that which guides all the world everywhere.
1748. Fr. 40 D., 16 B.
1749. Much learning does not teach understanding; else would it have taught Hesiod and Pythagoras, or, again, Xenophanes and Hecataeus.
1750. The biographers used by our author laid evident stress on this characteristic of the Ephesian, for §§ 1-3 (excepting two fragments cited in § 2) dwell on this single theme. As to the criticism of Pythagoras 
1751. s.f.
1752. Strom.
1753. cf.
1754. 504-500 b.c.
1755. Chapter 1. HERACLITUS
1756. BOOK IX
1757. 

1758. 

1759.   

1760. Having now dealt with the famous Pythagoreans, let us next discuss the so-called 
1761. sporadic
1762. Eudoxus used to be called 
1763. Endoxos
1764. There is a poem of our own upon him, which runs thus
1765. It is said that at Memphis Eudoxus learned his coming fate from the bull with beautiful horns. No words did it utter; for whence comes speech to a bull? Nature did not 
1766. you shall soon die.
1767. Anth. Pal.
1768.   
	
1769. The same authority, Apollodorus, states that Eudoxus of Cnidos flourished about the 103rd Olympiad,
1770. Memorabilia.
1771. 368-364 b.c.
1772. Three men have borne the name of Eudoxus: (1) our present subject; (2) a historian, of Rhodes; (3) a Sicilian Greek, the son of Agathocles, a comic poet, who three times won the prize in the city Dionysia and five times at the Lenaea, so we are told by Apollodorus in his 
1773. Geography
1774. The wording suggests that this physician’s name was not Eudoxus, but rather Chrysippus. He may have been the Chrysippus of Cnidos mentioned 
1775. s.v.
1776. Antig. v. Kar.
1777. cf.
1778. supra
1779. Chronology.
1780.   

1781. Eudoxus also left some excellent commentaries. He had a son Aristagoras, who had a son Chrysippus, the pupil of Aëthlius. To this Chrysippus we owe a medical work on the treatment of the eye, speculations upon nature having occupied his mind. 
1782. Eratosthenes in his writings addressed to Baton tells us that he also composed Dialogues of Dogs; others say that they were written by Egyptians in their own language and that he translated them and published them in Greece. Chrysippus of Cnidos, the son of Erineus, attended his lectures on the gods, the world, and the phenomena of the heavens, 
1783.   
	
1784. He had three daughters, Actis, Philtis and Delphis. 
1785. Some say that, when Plato gave a banquet, Eudoxus, owing to the numbers present, introduced the fashion of arranging couches in a semicircle. Nicomachus, the son of Aristotle, states that he declared pleasure to be the good.
1786. On the Seven Sages
1787. The reference is to the 
1788. De fin.
1789. sq.
1790. Nicomachean Ethics
1791.   
	
1792. After spending two months there, he went home and, aided by the liberality of his friends, he proceeded to Egypt with Chrysippus the physician, bearing with him letters of introduction from Agesilaus 
1793. The suggestion of hostile relations is held to be without foundation both by Tannery, 
1794. Aristarchus
1795. Astronomie ancienne
1796. Octaëteris.
1797.  
	
1798. Eudoxus of Cnidos, the son of Aeschines, was an astronomer, a geometer, a physician and a legislator. He learned geometry from Archytas and medicine from Philistion the Sicilian, as Callimachus tells us in his 
1799. Successions of Philosophers
1800. Tables.
1801. Chapter 8. EUDOXUS (c. 407-357 B.C.)
1802. 

1803.   

1804. According to Demetrius in his work on 
1805. Nature in the ordered universe was composed of unlimited and limiting elements, and so was the whole universe and all that is therein.
1806. On Nature
1807. Men of the Same Name
1808. He wrote one book, and it was this work which, according to Hermippus, some writer said that Plato the philosopher, when he went to Sicily to Dionysius’s court, bought from Philolaus’s relatives 
1809. Timaeus
1810. Hermippus (
1811. Cf.
1812. F.H.G.
1813. His doctrine is that all things are brought about by necessity and in harmonious inter-relation. He was the first to declare that the earth moves in a circle,
1814. sqq.
1815. Aristarchus.
1816. i.e.
1817.  

1818. Philolaus of Croton was a Pythagorean, and it was from him that Plato requests Dion to buy the Pythagorean treatises.
1819. Fancies of all things are most flattering; 
	
1820. Or in prose: 
1821. My chief advice to all men is: to lull suspicion to rest. For even if you don’t do something, and people fancy you do, it is ill for you. So Croton, his native land, once put Philolaus to death, fancying he wished to have a tyrant’s house.
1822. do
1823. Anth. Pal.
1824. The subject of 
1825. ἐτελεύτα
1826. Cf.
1827. Chapter 7. PHILOLAUS (Perhaps late fifth century)
1828. 

1829.  

1830. According to Demetrius in his work on 
1831. The Laconian Constitution
1832. Men of the Same Name
1833. Hippasus of Metapontum was another Pythagorean, who held that there is a definite time which the 
1834. Chapter 6. HIPPASUS (fourth century B.C.)
1835. 

1836.  
	
1837. He was the son of Pirithous, as he himself tells us at the beginning of his treatise
1838. These are the words of Alcmaeon of Croton, son of Pirithous, which he spake to Brotinus, Leon and Bathyllus: 
1839. Of things invisible, as of mortal things, only the gods have certain knowledge; but to us, as men, only inference from evidence is possible,
1840. Fr. 1 Diels
1841. Alcmaeon of Croton, another disciple of Pythagoras, wrote chiefly on medicine, but now and again he touches on natural philosophy, as when he says, 
1842. Miscellaneous History
1843. Most human affairs go in pairs.
1844. Chapter 5. ALCMAEON
1845. 

1846.   

1847. He was the first to bring mechanics to a system by applying mathematical principles; he also first 
1848. 528 b.
1849. Republic
1850. History of Greek Mathematics
1851. Cf.
1852.   

1853. Aristoxenus says that our Pythagorean was never defeated during his whole generalship, though he once resigned it owing to bad feeling against him, whereupon the army at once fell into the hands of the enemy. 
1854. Four men have borne the name of Archytas: (1) our subject; (2) a musician, of Mytilene; (3) the compiler of a work 
1855. Well, my instrument shall speak for me and win the day.
1856. These things I learnt from Teucer of Carthage.
1857. On Mechanism
1858. On Agriculture
1859.   

1860. These then are the letters which passed between them. 
1861. I was overjoyed to get the memoirs which you sent, and I am very greatly pleased with the writer of them; he seems to be a right worthy descendant of his distant forbears. They came, so it is said, from Myra, and were among those who emigrated from Troy in Laomedon’s time, really good men, as the traditional story shows. Those memoirs of mine about which you wrote are not yet in a fit state; but such as they are I have sent them on to you. We both agree about their custody, so I need not give any advice on that head. Farewell.
1862.   

1863. Plato to Archytas greeting.
1864. This is Archytas’s letter; and Plato’s answer is as follows: 
1865. You have done well to get rid of your ailment, as we learn both from your own message and through Lamiscus that you have: we attended to the matter of the memoirs and went up to Lucania where we found the true progeny of Ocellus [to wit, his writings]. We did get the works 
1866. On the Origin of the Universe
1867. Of Piety
1868. On Kingship
1869. On Law
1870.  

1871. Archytas wishes Plato good health.
1872. Archytas of Tarentum, son of Mnesagoras or, if we may believe Aristoxenus, of Hestiaeus, was another of the Pythagoreans. He it was whose letter saved Plato when he was about to be put to death by Dionysius. He was generally admired for his excellence in all fields; thus he was generalissimo of his city seven times, while the law excluded all others even from a second year of command. We have two letters written to him by Plato, he having first written to Plato in these terms: 
1873. Chapter 4. ARCHYTAS (fourth century B.C.)
1874. 

1875.  

1876. Epicharmus of Cos, son of Helothales, was another pupil of Pythagoras. When three months old he was sent to Megara in Sicily and thence to Syracuse, as he tells us in his own writings. On his statue this epigram is written
1877. If the great sun outshines the other stars,  

1878. Anth. Pal.
1879. Chapter 3. EPICHARMUS (c. 550-460 B.C.)
1880. 

1881.   

1882. His poems 
1883. Discourse on Medicine
1884. Purifications
1885. On Nature
1886. The sun he calls a vast collection of fire and larger than the moon; the moon, he says, is of the shape of a quoit, and the heaven itself crystalline. The soul, again, assumes all the various forms of animals and plants. At any rate he says
1887. Before now I was born a boy and a maid, a bush and a bird, and a dumb fish leaping out of the sea.
1888. Fr. 117 D.
1889.   

1890. At one time all things uniting in one through Love, at another each carried in a different direction through the hatred born of strife.
1891. Fr. 17. 7 D.
1892. Fr. 17. 6 D.
1893. never ceases,
1894. And their continuous change,
1895. His doctrines were as follows, that there are four elements, fire, water, earth and air, besides friendship by which these are united, and strife by which they are separated. These are his words
1896. Shining Zeus and life-bringing Hera, Aidoneus and Nestis, who lets flow from her tears the source of mortal life, 
1897. Fr. 6 D.
1898.   

1899. Verily there is a tale about the death of Empedocles, how that once he fell from a carriage and broke his right thigh. But if he leapt into the bowls of fire and so took a draught of life, how was it that his tomb was shown still in Megara?
1900. Anth. Pal.
1901. Thou, Empedocles, didst cleanse thy body with nimble flame, fire didst thou drink from everlasting bowls.
1902. i.e.
1903.   

1904. There is an epigram of my own on him in my 
1905. Anth. Pal.
1906. Pammetros
1907. In the short letter of Telauges which was mentioned above
1908. viii. 35.
1909. As to his age, Aristotle’s account is different, for he makes him to have been sixty when he died; while others make him one hundred and nine. He flourished in the 84th Olympiad.
1910. He tied a noose that hung aloft from a tall cornel-tree and thrust his neck into it, and his soul went down to Hades. 
1911. Od.
1912. Against the Sophists
1913. 444-441 b.c.
1914.   
	
1915. Moreover, from his abundant means he bestowed dowries upon many of the maidens of the city who had no dowry. No doubt it was the same means that enabled him to don a purple robe and over it a golden girdle, as Favorinus relates in his 
1916. Memorabilia,
1917.  

1918. Hippobotus assures us that formerly there was in Agrigentum a statue of Empedocles with his head covered, and afterwards another with the head uncovered in front of the Senate House at Rome, which plainly the Romans had removed to that site. For portrait-statues with inscriptions are extant even now. Neanthes of Cyzicus, who tells about the Pythagoreans, relates that, after the death of Meton, the germs of a tyranny began to show themselves, that then it was Empedocles who persuaded the Agrigentines to put an end to their factions and cultivate equality in politics. 
1919. But Heraclides is everywhere just such a collector of absurdities, telling us, for instance, that a man dropped down to earth from the moon.
1920. It is not at all surprising that his tomb is not found; the same is true of many other men.
1921.   

1922. These stories are contradicted by Timaeus, who expressly says that he left Sicily for Peloponnesus and never returned at all; and this is the reason Timaeus gives for the fact that the manner of his death is unknown. He replies to Heraclides, whom he mentions by name, in his fourteenth book. Pisianax, he says, was a citizen of Syracuse and possessed no land at Agrigentum. Further, if such a story had been in circulation, Pausanias would have set up a monument to his friend, as to a god, in the form of a statue or shrine, for he was a wealthy man. 
1923. to leap into the craters, which he had 
1924. How came he,
1925.   

1926. Diodorus of Ephesus, when writing of Anaximander, declares that Empedocles emulated him, displaying theatrical arrogance and wearing stately robes. We are told that the people of Selinus suffered from pestilence owing to the noisome smells from the river hard by, so that the citizens themselves perished and their women died in childbirth, that Empedocles conceived the plan of bringing two neighbouring rivers to the place at his own expense, and that by this admixture he sweetened the waters. When in this way the pestilence had been stayed and the Selinuntines were feasting on the river bank, Empedocles appeared; and the company rose up and worshipped and prayed to him as to a god. It was then to confirm this belief of theirs that he leapt into the fire. 
1927.   

1928. Hermippus tells us that Empedocles cured Panthea, a woman of Agrigentum, who had been given up by the physicians, and this was why he was offering sacrifice, and that those invited were about eighty in number. Hippobotus, again, asserts that, when he got up, he set out on his way to Etna; then, when he had reached it, he plunged into the fiery craters and disappeared, his intention being to confirm the report that he had become a god. Afterwards the truth was known, because 
1929. Περὶ τῆς ἄπνου
1930. Περὶ τῆς ἄπνου,
1931. ἀντέλεγε.
1932.   

1933. Then, after the feast, the remainder of the company dispersed and retired to rest, some under the trees in the adjoining field, others wherever they chose, while Empedocles himself remained on the spot where he had reclined at table. At daybreak all got up, and he was the only one missing. A search was made, and they questioned the servants, who said they did not know where he was. Thereupon someone said that in the middle of the night he heard an exceedingly loud voice calling Empedocles. Then he got up and beheld a light in the heavens and a glitter of lamps, but nothing else. His hearers were amazed at what had occurred, and Pausanias came down and sent people to search for him. But later he bade them take no further trouble, for things beyond expectation had happened to him, and it was their duty to sacrifice to him since he was now a god. 
1934.   

1935. As to his death different accounts are given. 
1936. In the list of the writings of Heraclides of Pontus (see v. 86 
1937. Περὶ τῆς ἄπνου.
1938. Περὶ τῶν ἐν ᾄδου,
1939. sqq.
1940. Subsequently, however, when Agrigentum came to regret him, the descendants of his personal enemies opposed his return home; and this was why he went to Peloponnesus, where he died. Nor did Timon let even him alone, but fastens upon him in these words:
1941. Empedocles, too, mouthing tawdry verses; to all that had independent force, he gave a separate existence; and the principles he chose need others to explain them. 
1942. Fr. 42 D.
1943.   

1944. Subsequently Empedocles broke up the assembly of the Thousand three years after it had been set up, which proves not only that he was wealthy but that he favoured the popular cause. At all events Timaeus in his eleventh and twelfth books (for he mentions him more than once) states that he seems to have held opposite views when in public life and when writing poetry.
1945. All hail! I go about among you an immortal god, no more a mortal, etc. 
1946. Fr. 112. 4 D.
1947. This emphasis on the political leanings of Empedocles, backed by the authority of Timaeus, looks strange after the anecdote, also from Timaeus, of §§ 64, 65, nor is it clear that the attack on the close oligarchical corporation of the Thousand really took place at a later date (
1948. ὕστερον
1949.   

1950. Again, when Acron the physician asked the council for a site on which to build a monument to his father, who had been eminent among physicians, Empedocles came forward and forbade it in a speech where he enlarged upon equality and in particular put the following question: 
1951. Is laid in an exalted tomb on a most exalted peak.
1952. Anth. Plan.
1953. Acron the eminent physician of Agrigentum, son of Acros, is buried beneath the steep eminence of his most eminent native city?
1954. But what inscription shall we put upon it? Shall it be this?
1955.   

1956. With this Timaeus agrees, at the same time giving the reason why Empedocles favoured democracy, namely, that, having been invited to dine with one of the magistrates, when the dinner had gone on some time and no wine was put on the table, though the other guests kept quiet, he, becoming indignant, ordered wine to be brought. Then the host confessed that he was waiting for the servant of the senate to appear. When he came he was made master of the revels, clearly by the arrangement of the host, whose design of making himself tyrant was but thinly veiled, for he ordered the guests either to drink wine or have it poured over their heads. For the time being Empedocles was reduced to silence; the next day he impeached both of them, the host and the master of the revels, and secured their condemnation and execution. This, then, was the beginning of his political career. 
1957.   

1958. It is said that Cleomenes the rhapsode recited this very poem, the 
1959. Memorabilia.
1960. F.H.G.
1961. ἐν τῷ Ὀλυμπικῷ,
1962. Cf.
1963. Purifications
1964. Timaeus explains that he called Agrigentum great, inasmuch as it had 800,000 inhabitants.
1965. The Agrigentines live delicately as if tomorrow they would die, but they build their houses well as if they thought they would live for ever.
1966. According to the vulgate, an unknown writer Potamilla is the authority cited by Diogenes. Diels, however (
1967. ποτʼ ἀμέλει,
1968. ποταμὸν ἄλλοι.
1969. ἀντίγραφα λέγει
1970. ὑπομνήματα
1971. ποταμὸν ἄλλα
1972. 3
1973. Frag der Vorsokr.
1974.   

1975. My friends, who dwell in the grcat city sloping down to yellow Acragas, hard by the citadel, busied with goodly works, all hail! I go about among you an immortal god, no more a mortal, so honoured of all, as is meet, crowned with fillets and flowery garlands. Straightway as soon as I enter with these, men and women, into flourishing towns, I am reverenced and tens of thousands follow, to learn where is the path which leads to welfare, some desirous of oracles, others suffering from all kinds of diseases, desiring to hear a message of healing. 
1976.   

1977. Fr. 112 D.
1978. The physician Pausanias, rightly so named, son of Anchitus, descendant of Asclepius, was born and bred at Gela. Many a wight pining in fell torments did he bring back from Persephone’s inmost shrine. 
1979. Fr. 156 D.
1980. Give ear, Pausanias, thou son of Anchitus the wise!
1981.   
	
1982. Timaeus also in the eighteenth 
1983. Fr. 1 D.
1984. On Nature
1985. v. 67.
1986. On Diseases
1987. wind-stayer.
1988. Histories
1989. According to Beloch this should be the twelfth book; 
1990. cf. inf.
1991.   

1992. Satyrus quotes this same Gorgias as saying that he himself was present when Empedocles performed magical feats. Nay more: he contends that Empedocles in his poems lays claim to this power and to much besides when he says
1993. And thou shalt learn all the drugs that are a defence to ward off ills and old age, since for thee alone shall I accomplish all this. Thou shalt arrest the violence of the unwearied winds that arise and sweep the earth, laying waste the cornfields with their blasts; and again, if thou so will, thou shalt call back winds in requital. Thou shalt make after the dark rain a seasonable drought for men, and again after the summer drought thou shalt cause tree-nourishing streams to pour from the sky. Thou shalt bring back from Hades a dead man’s strength. 
1994. Fr. 111 D.
1995.   

1996. Satyrus in his 
1997. Chronology
1998. Lives
1999. And in general terms he says he wrote both tragedies and political discourses. But Heraclides, the son of Sarapion, attributes the tragedies to a different author. Hieronymus declares that he had come across forty-three of these plays, while Neanthes tells us that Empedocles wrote these tragedies in his youth, and that he, Neanthes, was acquainted with seven of them. 
2000.   
	
2001. Aristotle in his 
2002. On Poets
2003. Sophist
2004.   

2005. But Hermippus’s account is that he was an admirer not so much of Parmenides as of Xenophanes, with whom in fact he lived and whose writing of poetry he imitated, and that his meeting with the Pythagoreans was subsequent. Alcidamas tells us in his treatise on 
2006. Physics
2007.   

2008. Theophrastus affirms that he was an admirer of Parmenides and imitated him in his verses, for Parmenides too had published his treatise 
2009. On Nature
2010. Neanthes states that down to the time of Philolaus and Empedocles all Pythagoreans were admitted to the discussions. But when Empedocles himself made them public property by his poem, they made a law that they should not be imparted to any poet. He says the same thing also happened to Plato, for he too was excommunicated. But which of the Pythagoreans it was who had Empedocles for a pupil he did not say. For the epistle commonly attributed to Telauges and the statement that Empedocles was the pupil of both Hippasus and Brontinus he held to be unworthy of credence. 
2011.   
	
2012. Timaeus in the ninth book of his 
2013. And there lived among them a man of superhuman knowledge, who verily possessed the greatest wealth of wisdom. 
2014. Fr. 129 D.
2015. Histories
2016. That he belonged to Agrigentum in Sicily he himself testifies at the beginning of his 
2017. My friends, who dwell in the great city sloping down to yellow Acragas, hard by the citadel. 
2018. Fr. 112 D.
2019. Purifications
2020.   
	
2021. But Satyrus in his 
2022. Memorabilia
2023. Cf.
2024. Epitome
2025. i.e.
2026. Lives
2027.   
	
2028. The grammarian Apollodorus in his 
2029. This man’s namesake and grandfather,
2030. Those who relate that, being exiled from his home, he went to Syracuse and fought in their ranks against the Athenians seem, in my judgement at least, to be completely mistaken. For by that time either he was no longer living or in extreme old age, which is inconsistent with the story. 
2031. He was the son of Meton, and Glaucus says he went to Thurii, just then founded.
2032. 445-444 b.c.
2033. Chronology
2034.  
	
2035. Empedocles was, according to Hippobotus, the son of Meton and grandson of Empedocles, and was a native of Agrigentum. This is confirmed by Timaeus in the fifteenth book of his 
2036. 496 b.c.
2037. Olympic Victories
2038. v. 67.
2039. On Diseases
2040. Histories
2041. Chapter 2. EMPEDOCLES (484-424 B.C.)
2042. 

2043.   

2044. Having now finished our account of Pythagoras, we have next to speak of the noteworthy Pythagoreans; after them will come the philosophers whom some denominate 
2045. i.e.
2046. sporadic
2047. For always to scan the heavens is not well, but more seemly is it to be provident for one’s 
2048.   

2049. Even you, O most excellent of men, were you no better born and famed than Pythagoras, would have risen and departed from Miletus. But now your ancestral glory has detained you as it had detained me were I Anaximenes’s peer. But if you, the best men, abandon your cities, then will their good order perish, and the peril from the Medes will increase. 
2050. Pythagoras to Anaximenes.
2051. Pythagoras the athlete was also the subject of another epigram as follows
2052. Gone to box with other lads  

2053. Anth. Plan.
2054. It is said that Cylon was a rival of Pythagoras, as Antilochus
2055. Apelt suggests Antiphon, comparing Xen. 
2056. Mem.
2057.   

2058. Further, we are told that he was the first to call the heaven the universe and the earth spherical,
2059. As Favorinus seems to have paid special attention to discoveries and the invention of names (
2060. cf.
2061. Favorinus says that our philosopher used definitions throughout the subject matter of mathematics; their use was extended by Socrates and his disciples, and afterwards by Aristotle and the Stoics.  
2062. this is declared by Theaetetus’s epigram
2063. Know’st one Pythagoras, long-haired Pythagoras,  

2064. Anth. Plan.
2065.   
	
2066. Some say there was also another Pythagoras, a sculptor of Rhegium, who is thought to have been the first to aim at rhythm and symmetry; another a sculptor of Samos; another a bad orator; another a doctor who wrote on hernia and also compiled some things about Homer; and yet another who, so we are told by Dionysius, wrote a history of the Dorian race. Eratosthenes says, according to what we learn from Favorinus in the eighth book of his 
2067. 588-584 b.c.
2068. Miscellaneous History
2069.   

2070. There were four men of the name of Pythagoras living about the same time and at no great distance from one another: (1) of Croton, a man with tyrannical leanings; (2) of Phlius, an athlete, some say a trainer; (3) of Zacynthus; (4) our subject, who discovered the secrets of philosophy [and taught them], and to whom was applied the phrase, 
2071. Ipse dixit
2072. The Master said
2073. For the last of the Pythagoreans, whom Aristoxenus in his time saw, were Xenophilus from the Thracian Chalcidice, Phanton of Phlius, and Echecrates, Diocles and Polymnastus, also of Phlius, who were pupils of Philolaus and Eurytus of Tarentum. 
2074.   

2075. He flourished in the 60th Olympiad
2076. 540-536 b.c. 
2077. in the 62nd Olympiad
2078. Strom.
2079. Cf.
2080. And again
2081. Woe! Woe! Whence, Pythagoras, this deep reverence for beans? Why did he fall in the midst of his disciples? A bean-field there was he durst not cross; sooner than trample on it, he endured to be slain at the cross-roads by the men of Acragas.  
2082. Anth. Pal.
2083. If thou wouldst know the mind of old Pythagoras, 
	
2084. I’ve lived before.
2085. Anth. Plan.
2086.   

2087. To return to Pythagoras. According to Heraclides, the son of Serapion, he was eighty years old when he died, and this agrees with his own description of the life of man, though most authorities say he was ninety. And there are jesting lines of my own upon him as follows
2088. So wise was wise Pythagoras that he 

2089. Anth. Plan.
2090. Not thou alone from all things animate 

2091. Anth. Pal.
2092.   

2093. They also had a son Telauges, who succeeded his father and, according to some, was Empedocles’ instructor. At all events Hippobotus makes Empedocles say
2094. What makes me to be called a woman.
2095. Put on what?
2096. With her own husband at once, with another man never.
2097. Fr. 155 D.
2098.   

2099. Pythagoras had a wife, Theano by name, daughter of Brontinus of Croton, though some call her Brontinus’s wife and Pythagoras’s pupil. He had a daughter Damo, according to the letter of Lysis to Hippasus, which says of him, 
2100. I am told by many that you discourse publicly, a thing which Pythagoras deemed unworthy, for certain it is that, when he entrusted his daughter Damo with the custody of his memoirs, he solemnly charged her never to give them to anyone outside his house. And, although she could have sold the writings for a large sum of money, she would not, but reckoned poverty and her father’s solemn injunctions more precious than gold, for all that she was a woman.
2101.   

2102. Hermippus gives another anecdote. Pythagoras, on coming to Italy, made a subterranean dwelling and enjoined on his mother to mark and record all that passed, and at what hour, and to send her notes down to him until he should ascend. She did so. Pythagoras some time afterwards came up withered and looking like a skeleton, then went into the assembly and declared he had been down to Hades, and even read out his experiences to them. They were so affected that they wept and wailed and looked upon him as divine, going so far as to send  
2103.   
	
2104. Dicaearchus, however, says that Pythagoras died a fugitive in the temple of the Muses at Metapontum after forty days’ starvation. Heraclides, in his 
2105. Epitome of the Lives of Satyrus,
2106.   

2107. Pythagoras met his death in this wise.
2108. This passage, partly in direct (
2109. οὕτω δέ
2110. Vit. Pyth.
2111. τὸν δὲ Π. καταληφθῆναι διεξιόντα,
2112. Vit. Pyth.
2113. cf.
2114. Vit. Pyth.
2115. καταληφθῆναι. ἀποσφαγῆναι
2116. γενόμενος, ἔστη, εἰπών
2117. In the account which follows two passages should be distinguished: (1) 
2118. Vit. Pyth. 251 sq.
2119. Vit. Pyth 55 sqq.
2120. ἀσιτήσαντα.
2121. οὔτω δὲ καὶ
2122. συνεδρεύοντος συνέβη,
2123.   

2124. And Aristophon in the 
2125. B.
2126. A.
2127. Meineke, 
2128. C.G.F.
2129. Pythagorist
2130.   

2131. Thus Xenophanes. But Cratinus also lampooned him both in the 
2132. To Loxias we sacrifice: Pythagoras his rite,  

2133. Meineke, 
2134. C.G.F.
2135. Alcmaeon
2136. Cratin. minor, Meineke, 
2137. C.G.F.
2138. The Tarentines
2139. Pythagorizing Woman
2140.   

2141. Xenophanes
2142. They say that, passing a belaboured whelp, 

2143. Stay, smite not ! ’Tis a friend, a human soul; 

2144. Now other thoughts, another path, I show.
2145. Fr. 7 D.
2146. But Pythagoras’s great dignity not even Timon 
2147. Pythagoras, inclined to witching works and ways, 

2148. Fr. 58 D.
2149. Silli,
2150. This is what Alexander says that he found in the Pythagorean memoirs.
2151. Alexander is cited above (§ 24). 
2152. Περὶ Πυθαγορείων.
2153. Lives
2154. εὑρηκέναι
2155.   

2156. He held that the most beautiful figure is the sphere among solids, and the circle among plane figures. Old age may be compared to everything that is decreasing, while youth is one with increase. Health means retention of the form, disease its destruction. Of salt he said it should be brought to table to remind us of what is right; for salt preserves whatever it finds, and it arises from the purest sources, sun and sea. 
2157. as the barbarians do even to this day; and you should not divide bread which brings them together; some give as the explanation of this that it has reference to the judgement of the dead in Hades, others that bread makes cowards in war, others again that it is from it that the whole world begins.
2158. This may have some hidden sense: but it is tempting to adopt 
2159. τούτου
2160. τόπου
2161.   
	
2162. Another of his precepts was not to eat white cocks, as being sacred to the Month and wearing suppliant garb—now supplication ranked with things good— sacred to the Month because they announce the time of day; and again white represents the nature of the good, black the nature of evil. Not to touch such fish as were sacred; for it is not right that gods and men should be allotted the same things, any more than free men and slaves. Not to break bread; for once friends used to meet over one loaf, 
2163. According to Aristotle in his work 
2164. Nor taste ye of what falls beneath the board !
2165. Meineke, 
2166. C.G.F.
2167. Heroes
2168. On the Pythagoreans
2169.   

2170. Right has the force of an oath, and that is why Zeus is called the God of Oaths. Virtue is harmony, and so are health and all good and God himself; this is why they say that all things are constructed according to the laws of harmony. The love of friends is just concord and equality. We should not pay equal worship to gods and heroes, but to the gods always, with reverent silence, in white robes, and after purification, to the heroes only from midday onwards. Purification is by cleansing, baptism and lustration, and by keeping clean from all deaths and births and all pollution, and abstaining from meat and flesh of animals that have died, mullets, gurnards, eggs and egg-sprung animals, beans, and the other abstinences prescribed by those who perform mystic rites in the temples. 
2171.   

2172. The whole air is full of souls which are called genii
2173. The Greek daemons (
2174. W. and D.
2175. δαίμονες
2176.   

2177. The veins, arteries, and sinews are the bonds of the soul. But when it is strong and settled down into itself, reasonings and deeds become its bonds. When cast out upon the earth, it wanders in the air like the body. Hermes is the steward of souls, and for that reason is called Hermes the Escorter, Hermes the Keeper of the Gate, and Hermes of the Underworld, since it is he who brings in the souls from their bodies both by land and sea; and the pure are taken into the uppermost region, but the impure are not permitted to approach the pure or each other, but are bound by the Furies in bonds unbreakable. 
2178.   

2179. The soul of man, he says, is divided into three parts, intelligence, reason, and passion. Intelligence and passion are possessed by other animals as well, but reason by man alone. The seat of the soul extends from the heart to the brain; the part of it which is in the heart is passion, while the parts located in the brain are reason and intelligence. The senses are distillations from these. Reason is immortal, all else mortal. The soul draws nourishment from the blood; the faculties
2180. The word 
2181. ἀνέμους
2182. i.e.
2183. ratios,
2184. λόγους
2185.   

2186. First congealing in about forty days, it receives form and, according to the ratios of 
2187. harmony,
2188.   

2189. All things live which partake of heat—this is why plants are living things —but all have not soul, which is a detached part of aether, partly the hot and partly the cold, for it partakes of cold aether too. Soul is distinct from life; it is immortal, since that from which it is detached is immortal. Living creatures are reproduced from one another by germination; there is no such thing as spontaneous generation from earth. The germ is a clot of brain containing hot vapour within it; and this, when brought to the womb, throws out, from the brain, ichor, fluid and blood, whence are formed flesh, sinews, bones, hairs, and the whole of the body, while soul and sense come from the vapour within. 
2190.   

2191. The sun, the moon, and the other stars are gods; for, in them, there is a preponderance of heat, and heat is the cause of life. The moon is illumined by the sun. Gods and men are akin, inasmuch as man partakes of heat; therefore God takes thought for man. Fate is the cause of things being thus ordered both as a whole and separately. The sun’s ray penetrates through the  
2192.   

2193. There are also antipodes, and our 
2194. γῆς ἰσόμοι ρʼ ἀήρ.
2195. El.
2196. Cf.
2197. up.
2198. down
2199.   

2200. The principle of all things is the monad or unit; arising from this monad the 
2201.   

2202. Alexander in his 
2203. For the doctrines of Pythagoras(§§ 25-35) Alexander is taken as D. L.’s authority (see Introd. pp. xxvi, xxvii) This indefatigable pedant is known to have written a special work on the Pythagorean system. Our author may not have possessed this work by Alexander, but he probably had access to a public library containing it. In any case he deserves praise for the selection. Between Alexander Polyhistor in the first century b.c. and the threshold of the third century a.d. there had been an enormous increase in neoPythagorean literature, mostly dealing with mystical properties of numbers and with ethics based upon theology. All this D. L. ignores, going back to a Hellenistic document long forgotten.
2204. Successions of Philosophers
2205. to sing to the lyre and by hymns to show due gratitude to gods and to good men. To abstain from beans because they are flatulent and partake most of the breath of life; and besides, it is better for the stomach if they are not taken, and this again will make our dreams in sleep smooth and untroubled. 
2206.   
	
2207. And he further bade them to honour gods before demi-gods, heroes before men, and first among men their parents; and so to behave one to another as not to make friends into enemies, but to turn enemies into friends. To deem nothing their own. To support the law, to wage war on lawlessness. Never to kill or injure trees that are not wild, nor even any animal that does not injure man. That it is seemly and advisable neither to give way to unbridled laughter nor to wear sullen looks. To avoid excess of flesh, on a journey to let exertion and slackening alternate, to train the memory, in wrath to restrain hand and tongue, to respect all divination, 
2208.   

2209. He is said to have advised his disciples as follows: Always to say on entering their own doors: 

2210. Where did I trespass? What did I achieve?  

2211.   

2212. The same authority, as we have seen, asserts that Pythagoras took his doctrines from the Delphic priestess Themistoclea. Hieronymus, however, says that, when he had descended into Hades, he saw the soul of Hesiod bound fast to a brazen pillar and gibbering, and the soul of Homer hung on a tree with serpents writhing about it, this being their punishment for what they had said about the gods; he also saw under torture those who would not remain faithful to their wives. This, says our authority, is why he was honoured by the people of Croton. Aristippus of Cyrene affirms in his work 
2213. The word 
2214. ἀγορεύειν.
2215. Πύθιος
2216. Πυθαγόρας
2217. On the Physicists
2218.   
	
2219. He would avoid laughter and all pandering to tastes such as insulting 
2220. setting right.
2221.   

2222. Above all, he forbade as food red mullet and blacktail, and he enjoined abstinence from the hearts of animals and from beans, and sometimes, according to Aristotle, even from paunch and gurnard. Some say that he contented himself with just some honey or a honeycomb or bread, never touching wine in the daytime, and with greens boiled or raw for dainties, and fish but rarely. His robe was white and spotless, his quilts of white wool, for linen had not yet reached those parts. He was never known to over-eat, to behave loosely, or to be drunk. 
2223.   

2224. This is what they meant. Don’t stir the fire with a knife: don’t stir the passions or the swelling pride of the great. Don’t step over the beam of a balance: don’t overstep the bounds of equity and justice. Don’t sit down on your bushel: have the same care of to-day and the future, a bushel being the day’s ration. By not eating your heart he meant not wasting your life in troubles and pains. By saying do not turn round when you go abroad, he meant to advise those who are departing this life not to set their hearts’ desire on living nor to be too much attracted by the pleasures of this life. The explanations of the rest are similar and would take too long to set out. 
2225.   

2226. The following were his watchwords or precepts: don’t stir the fire with a knife, don’t step over the beam of a balance, don’t sit down on your bushel,
2227. The 
2228. quart
2229. χοῖνιξ
2230.   

2231. where we are also told that one of the school, Xenophilus by name, asked by some one how he could best educate his son, replied, 
2232. By making him the citizen of a well-governed state.
2233.   
	
2234. Down to the time of Philolaus it was not possible to acquire knowledge of any Pythagorean doctrine, and Philolaus alone brought out those three celebrated books which Plato sent a hundred minas to purchase. Not less than six hundred persons went to his evening lectures; and those who were privileged to see him wrote to their friends congratulating themselves on a great piece of good fortune. Moreover, the Metapontines named his house the Temple of Demeter and his porch the Museum, so we learn from Favorinus in his 
2235. Rules of Pedagogy
2236. See, however, Porphyry, 
2237. F.H.G.
2238. Vit. Pyth.
2239. Miscellaneous History.
2240.   

2241. He was the first, they say, to declare that the soul, bound now in this creature, now in that, thus goes on a round ordained of necessity. He too, according to Aristoxenus the musician, was the first to introduce weights and measures into Greece. It was he who first declared that the Evening and Morning Stars are the same, as Parmenides maintains.
2242. after two hundred and seven years in Hades he has returned to the land of the living.
2243. prophets to declare the voice of God,
2244. Cf. inf.
2245.   
	
2246. Some say it was a certain trainer named Pythagoras who instituted this diet,
2247. Constitution of Delos.
2248. De abstinentia
2249. Vit. Pyth.
2250. Cf.
2251.   

2252. He is also said to have been the first to diet athletes on meat, trying first with Eurymenes
2253. Miscellaneous History.
2254. Or rather 
2255. cf. supra
2256. soft cheese
2257. Memorabilia
2258. The story of Eurymenes was known to Porphyry, 
2259. Vit. Pyth.
2260. and further that Pythagoras spent most of his time upon the arithmetical aspect of geometry; he also discovered the musical intervals on the monochord. Nor did he neglect even medicine. We are told by Apollodorus the calculator that he offered a sacrifice of oxen on finding that in a right-angled triangle the square on the hypotenuse is equal to the squares on the sides containing the right angle. And there is an epigram running as follows
2261. What time Pythagoras that famed figure found, 

2262. Anth. Pal.
2263.   
	
2264. Indeed, his bearing is said to have been most dignified, and his disciples held the opinion about him that he was Apollo come down from the far north. There is a story that once, when he was disrobed, his thigh was seen to be of gold; and when he crossed the river Nessus, quite a number of people said they heard it welcome him. According to Timaeus in the tenth book of his 
2265. Scriptorum Alex. ill. fr.
2266. On Alexander
2267. The allusion is to the Nymphs and the heavenly pair, mother and daughter (Demeter and Persephone).
2268. History
2269.   

2270. He divides man’s life into four quarters thus: 
2271. On Pythagoras.
2272. Because he lectured at night;
2273. νυκτερινὴ ἀκρόασις.
2274. cf.
2275. Friendship is equality
2276. Friends have all things in common
2277. Twenty years a boy, twenty years a youth, twenty years a young man, twenty years an old man; and these four periods correspond to the four seasons, the boy to spring, the youth to summer, the young man to autumn, and the old man to winter,
2278.   

2279. The contents in general of the aforesaid three treatises of Pythagoras are as follows. He forbids us to pray for ourselves, because we do not know what will help us. Drinking he calls, in a word, a snare, and he discountenances all excess, saying that no one should go beyond due proportion either in drinking or in eating. Of sexual indulgence, too, he says, 
2280. When you want to lose what strength you have.
2281. Keep to the winter for sexual pleasures, in summer abstain; they are less harmful in autumn and spring, but they are always harmful and not conducive to health.
2282.   
	
2283. Aristoxenus says that Pythagoras got most of his moral doctrines from the Delphic priestess Themistoclea. According to Ion of Chios in his 
2284. Cf.
2285. A philosopher,
2286. Successions of Philosophers
2287. Be not shameless, before any man.
2288. Scopiads
2289. τινα ἱστορεῖ,
2290. Ἴων δὲ ὁ Χῖος ἐν τοῖς Τριαγμοῖς καὶ Πυθαγόραν εἰς Ὀρφέα ἀνενεγκεῖν τινα ἱστορεῖ.
2291. Strom.
2292. F.H.G.
2293. Triagmi
2294.   
	
2295. But the book which passes as the work of Pythagoras is by Lysis of Tarentum, a Pythagorean, who fled to Thebes and taught Epaminondas.
2296. On the Mysteries
2297. Croton
2298. Helothales the Father of Epicharmus of Cos
2299. Of Piety
2300. On the Soul
2301. Young men, come reverence in quietude 

2302. Sacred Poem
2303. On the Universe
2304. Epitome of Sotion
2305. §§ 6-7 
2306. he spoke thus because . . .
2307. ἱστορίην,
2308. s.v.
2309. ἔνιοι μὲν καθηγησαμένου.
2310.   

2311. There are some who insist, absurdly enough, that Pythagoras left no writings whatever. At all events Heraclitus, the physicist,
2312. On Nature.
2313. On Statesmanship
2314. On Education
2315. Nay, I swear by the air I breathe, I swear by the water I drink, I will never suffer censure on account of this 
2316. On Nature
2317. Pythagoras, son of Mnesarchus, practised inquiry beyond all other men, and in this selection of his writings made himself a wisdom of his own, showing much learning but poor workmanship.
2318. Fr. 129 D., 17 B.
2319.   
	
2320. When Euphorbus died, his soul passed into Hermotimus, and he also, wishing to authenticate the story, went up to the temple of Apollo at Branchidae, where he identified the shield which Menelaus, on his voyage home from Troy, had dedicated to Apollo, so he said: the shield being now so rotten through and through that the ivory facing only was left. When Hermotimus died, he became Pyrrhus, a fisherman of Delos, and again he remembered everything, how he was first Aethalides, then Euphorbus, then Hermotimus, and then Pyrrhus. But when Pyrrhus died, he became Pythagoras, and still remembered all the facts mentioned. 
2321.   

2322. This is what Heraclides of Pontus tells us he used to say about himself: that he had once been Aethalides and was accounted to be Hermes’ son, and Hermes told him he might choose any gift he liked except immortality; so he asked to retain through life and through death a memory of his experiences. Hence in life he could recall everything, and when he died he still kept the 
2323.   
		
2324. Now he was in Egypt when Polycrates sent him a letter of introduction to Amasis; he learnt the Egyptian language, so we learn from Antiphon in his book 
2325. Compare Clement Alex. 
2326. sq.
2327. Vit. Pyth.
2328. Cf.
2329. Θαλῆς . . . τοῖς Αἱγυπτίων προφήταις συμβεβληκέναι εἴρηται, καθάπερ καὶ ὁ Πυθαγόρας αὐτοῖς γε τούτοις διʼ οὓς καὶ περιετέμνετο, ἵνα δὴ καὶ εἰς τὰ ἄδυτα κατελθὼν τὴν μνστικὴν παρὰ Αλγυπτίων ἐκμάθοι φιλοσοφίαν.
2330. Strom.
2331. On Men of Outstanding Merit
2332.   
	
2333. From Samos he went, it is said, to Lesbos with an introduction to Pherecydes from his uncle Zoïlus. He had three silver flagons made and took them as presents to each of the priests of Egypt. He had brothers, of whom Eunomus was the elder and Tyrrhenus the second; he also had a slave, Zamolxis, who is worshipped, so says Herodotus,
2334. iv. 93 
2335. sq.
2336.  

2337. Having now completed our account of the philosophy of Ionia starting with Thales, as well as of its chief representatives, let us proceed to examine the philosophy of Italy, which was started by Pythagoras,
2338. Compare Clement Alex. 
2339. V. Pyth.
2340. Πυθαγόρας μὲν οὖν Μνησάρχου Σάμιος, ὥς φησιν Ἱππόβοτος, ὡς δὲ Ἀριστόξενος ἐν τῷ Πυθαγόρου βίῳ, καὶ Ἀρίσταρχος καὶ Θεόπομπος, Τυρρηνὸς ἦν, ὡς δὲ Νεάνθης, Σύριος ἢ Τύριος, ὥστε εἷναι κατὰ τοὺς πλείστους τὸν Πυθαγόραν βάρβαρον τὸ γένος.
2341. Strom.
2342. Chapter 1. PYTHAGORAS (c. 582-500 B.C.)
2343. BOOK VIII
2344. 

2345. 

2346.   

2347. 3. Ethics, dealing with things good and evil. 

2348. Of the Arguments commonly used on Behalf of [Pleasure]. 
2349. Proofs that Pleasure is not a Good, four books. 
2350. Proofs that Pleasure is not the End-in-chief of Action, four books. 
2351. Of the Good or Morally Beautiful and Pleasure, addressed to Aristocreon, ten books. 
2352. First series: 
2353. Of Virtues, addressed to Pollis, two books. 
2354. Of the Characters of the several Virtues, one book. 
2355. Of the Difference between the Virtues, addressed to Diodorus, four books. 
2356. Of Art and the Inartistic, addressed to Aristocreon, four books. 
2357. Of formed State, or Habit, of Mind, addressed to Cleon, three books. 
2358. Third series: 
2359. Of Rhetoric, addressed to Dioscurides, four books. 
2360. Of the Objections urged against the Dialecticians, three books. 
2361. Of Dialectic, addressed to Aristocreon, four books. 
2362.   

2363. 2. Ethics dealing with the common view and the sciences and virtues thence arising.

2364. That the Ancients rightly admitted Dialectic as well as Demonstration, addressed to Zeno, two books. 
2365. Second series: 
2366. Of the Use of Reason, addressed to Leptines. 
2367. Of Reason, two books. 
2368. Of Apprehension, of Knowledge and of Ignorance,
2369. Adv. math.
2370. sc.
2371. sed inter scientiam et inscientiam comprehensionem illam, quam dixi, collocabat
2372. Acad. post.
2373. Cf.
2374. Proofs that the Wise Man will not hold Opinions,
2375. Cf. supra
2376. Of Opinion or Assumption, addressed to Pythonax, three books. 
2377. Of Conceptions, addressed to Laodamas, two books. 
2378. How it is we name each Thing and form a Conception of it, one book. 
2379. Against the Touching up of Paintings, addressed to Timonax, one book. 
2380. First series: 
2381.   

2382. A Reply to Critics, addressed to Diodorus, one book. 
2383. On the Right Way of reading Poetry, two books. 
2384. Of Poems, addressed to Philomathes, one book. 
2385. Of Proverbs, addressed to Zenodotus, two books. 
2386. Fifth series: 
2387. Points of Etymology, addressed to Diocles, four books. 
2388. Of Etymological Matters, addressed to Diocles, seven books. 
2389. Fourth series: 
2390. Probable Arguments relative to the Classifications, Genera and Species, and the Treatment of Contraries, one book. 
2391. Of Contraries, addressed to Dionysius, two books. 
2392. Of Classifications, one book. 
2393. Of Species and Genera, addressed to Gorgippides, two books. 
2394. Probabilities in Support of the Definitions, addressed to Dioscurides, two books. 
2395.   

2396. 

2397. Of the Objections wrongly urged against the Definitions, addressed to Laodamas, seven books. 
2398. Third series: 
2399. Of Definitions, addressed to Metrodorus, seven books. 
2400. Of Similes, addressed to Aristocles, three books. 
2401. Second series: 
2402. Definitions concerned with other Branches of Science, addressed to Metrodorus, two books. 
2403. Definitions of the Generic Notions [in Ethics], addressed to Metrodorus, seven books. 
2404. Definitions of the Morally Intermediate, addressed to Metrodorus, two books. 
2405. Definitions of the Bad or Vicious, addressed to Metrodorus, two books. 
2406. Definitions of the Good or Virtuous, addressed to Metrodorus, two books. 
2407. Probable Premisses for Ethical Doctrines, addressed to Philomathes, three books. 
2408. Ethical Theses, one book. 
2409. Outline of Ethical Theory, addressed to Theoporos, one book. 
2410. First series: 
2411. 1. Ethics dealing with the classification of ethical conceptions. 
2412.   

2413. V. Under Logic.  

2414. Defence of Common Sense, addressed to Gorgippides, seven books. 
2415. Attack upon Common Sense, addressed to Metrodorus, six books. 
2416. Tenth series: 
2417. Reply to the Method of Arcesilaus, dedicated to Sphaerus, one book. 
2418. Of Dialectical Puzzles, addressed to Dioscurides, five books. 
2419. Of Sophisms, addressed to Heraclides and Pollis, two books. 
2420. Ninth series: 
2421. Of the 
2422. Nobody
2423. Of the Arguments derived from the Indeterminate and the Determined, addressed to Pasylus, two books. 
2424. Of the 
2425. Nobody
2426. Eighth series: 
2427. On the Puzzle of 
2428. the Man who escapes Detection,
2429.   

2430. Of the Fallacy of 
2431. the Veiled Person,
2432. Of the Arguments affecting Ordinary Suppositions and on those who are Inactive or Silent, addressed to Onetor, two books. 
2433. Of the Argument from Small Increments, addressed to Stesagoras, two books. 
2434. Negative Arguments, to serve as Logical Exercises, one book. 
2435. Of the Sceptic who denies, addressed to Aristocreon, two books. 
2436. To those who maintain that the Premisses of the Mentiens are false, one book. 
2437. Seventh series: 
2438. Solutions of the Hypothetical Arguments of Hedylus, addressed to Aristocreon and Apollas, one book. 
2439. On the Solution of the Mentiens, addressed to Aristocreon, three books. 
2440. Solution in the Style of the Ancients, addressed to Dioscurides, one book. 
2441. Reply to Objections urged against those who condemn the Dissection of Indefinite Arguments, addressed to Pasylus, three books. 
2442. Proofs showing that Indefinite Arguments ought not to be dissected, one book. 
2443. To those who solve the Mentiens by dissecting it, addressed to Aristocreon, two books. 
2444.   

2445. Reply to those who hold that Propositions may be at once False and True, one book. 
2446. Sixth series: 
2447. Of the Mentiens Argument, addressed to Aristocreon, six books. 
2448. Arguments of the Mentiens Type, to serve as Introduction, one book. 
2449. Introduction to the Mentiens 
2450. A well-known fallacy; see Book II. § 108.
2451. Fifth series: 
2452. On Explanatory Symbols, addressed to Laodamas, one book. 
2453. Solutions of the Hypothetical Arguments of Alexander, three books. (Spurious.) 
2454. Solutions of the Hypothetical Arguments of Hedylus, two books. 
2455. Hypothetical Syllogisms consisting of Theorems, two books. 
2456. Hypothetical Syllogisms to serve as Introduction, two books. 
2457. Hypothetical Syllogisms upon the Laws, again addressed to Meleager, one book. 
2458. On Hypotheses, addressed to Meleager, three books. 
2459. Fourth series: 
2460. A Reply to Ameinias’ 
2461. Disjunctive Syllogisms,
2462. Variable Arguments concerning the Mean, three books. (Spurious.) 
2463.   

2464. On Variable Arguments, addressed to Athenades, one book. (This also is spurious.) 
2465. Third series: 
2466. Inquiries into the Moods: addressed to Zeno and Philomathes, one book. (This appears to be spurious.) 
2467. Syllogistic Arguments by Resolution in Indemonstrable Arguments, one book. 
2468. Of the Syllogisms under False Figures, five books. 
2469. Of the Introductory Moods, addressed to Zeno, three books. 
2470. Of Introductory or Elementary Syllogisms, addressed to Zeno, one book. 
2471. Of the Rules for Syllogisms, one book. 
2472. Of Redundant Arguments, addressed to Pasylus, two books. 
2473. On the Analysis of Syllogisms, one book. 
2474. On the Primary Indemonstrable Syllogisms, addressed to Zeno, one book. 
2475. On Conclusive Arguments, addressed to Zeno, one book. 
2476. Second series: 
2477.   

2478. 

2479. Collected Logical Writings, addressed to Timocrates and Philomathes: a Criticism of their Works on Moods and Syllogisms, one book. 
2480. Reply to Philo’s Work on Moods, addressed to Timostratus, one book. 
2481. Reply to the Objections against the Analyses of Syllogisms, three books. 
2482. Reply to the Objections brought against drawing out the same Argument syllogistically and without a Syllogism, two books. 
2483. How the same Syllogism may be drawn up in several Moods, one book. 
2484. Of Inferences, addressed to Aristagoras, one book. 
2485. On the Question what Premisses are capable of demonstrating a given Conclusion with the Aid of one or more Subsidiary Premisses, one book. 
2486. To Agathon, or Of the Problems that remain, one book. 
2487. Of Reciprocal and Hypothetical Syllogisms, one book. 
2488. Comparison of the Judgements expressed in the Moods, one book. 
2489. Of the Construction of Moods, addressed to Stesagoras, two books. 
2490. Of Syllogisms, three books. 
2491.   

2492. IV. Logic as concerned with syllogisms and moods.  

2493. Handbook of Arguments and Moods, addressed to Dioscurides, five books. 
2494. First series: 
2495. 

2496. Materials collected for the Introduction to the Study of Ambiguities, two books. 
2497. Epitome of the Work on Ambiguities, addressed to Epicrates, one book. 
2498. Introduction to the Study of Ambiguities, five books. 
2499. A Reply to the Work of Panthoides on Ambiguities, two books. 
2500. Of Ambiguity in the Moods of the Hypothetical Syllogism, two books. 
2501. On Figurative Ambiguities, one book. 
2502. On Ambiguous Forms of Speech, addressed to Apollas, four books. 
2503. Against Those who reject Division, two books. 
2504. Third series: 
2505. Of the Relative Term, one book. 
2506. Of the Elements of Speech, addressed to Nicias, one book. 
2507. Of the Arrangement and Elements of Sentences, addressed to Philip, three books. 
2508.   

2509. III. Logic, as concerned with words or phrases and the sentence.

2510. Of the Arrangement of Words Spoken, four books. 
2511. Of the Elements of Speech and on Words Spoken, five books. 
2512. Second series: 
2513. Diction, addressed to Dionysius, one book. 
2514. Sentences violating Ordinary Usage, one book. 
2515. On Solecistic Sentences, addressed to Dionysius, one book. 
2516. On Solecisms, one book. 
2517. Of the Sorites Argument as applied to Uttered Words, three books. 
2518. Of Anomalous Words or Phrases, addressed to Dion, four books. 
2519. On Single Words, addressed to Sosigenes and Alexander, five books. 
2520. Of Singular and Plural Expressions, six books. 
2521. First series: 
2522. Of Proper Nouns, two books. 
2523. Of Modification of Significance, addressed to Stesagoras, two books. 
2524. Of Enunciations classified according to subject matter, one book. 
2525. Of the Five Cases, one book. 
2526. Fifth series: 
2527. A Work, addressed to Pasylus, on Predicates, four books. 
2528. Of Hypothetical Syllogisms, addressed to Apollonides, one book. 
2529. Of Nominatives and Oblique Cases, addressed to Phylarchus, one book. 
2530. Of Predicates, addressed to Metrodorus, ten books. 
2531. Fourth series: 
2532.   

2533. Of Answering Questions, four books. 
2534. Of Investigation, two books. 
2535. Epitome of Reply, one book. 
2536. Epitome of Interrogation and Inquiry, one book. 
2537. Of Inquiry, four books. 
2538. Of Asking Questions, two books. 
2539. Of Imperatives, two books. 
2540. Third series: 
2541. On the Question what are False Judgements, one book. 
2542. A Reply to the Work of Philo on Meanings, one book. 
2543. On Judgements of Possibility, addressed to Clitus, four books. 
2544. On the Argument which employs three Terms, also addressed to Gorgippides, one book. 
2545. A Contribution to the Subject of Consequents, one book. 
2546. Choosing from Alternatives, addressed to Gorgippides, one book. 
2547.   

2548. II. Logic dealing with the subject matter.

2549. Of a True Hypothetical Judgement, addressed to Gorgippides, four books. 
2550. Of a True Disjunctive Judgement, addressed to Gorgippides, one book. 
2551. Second series: 
2552. On Judgements in the Perfect Tense, two books. 
2553. On Temporal Judgements, two books. 
2554. On the Variety of Indefinite Judgements, four books. 
2555. Of Indefinite Judgements, addressed to Dion, three books. 
2556. Of Judgements expressed by means of Privation, addressed to Thearus, one book. 
2557. Of Affirmative Judgements, addressed to Athenodorus, one book. 
2558. Of Negative Judgements, addressed to Aristagoras, three books. 
2559. Of the Complex Judgement, addressed to Athenades, two books. 
2560. Of Judgements which are not Simple, one book. 
2561. Of Judgements, one book. 
2562. First series: 
2563. Probable Hypothetical Judgements, addressed to Dioscurides, four books. 
2564. Art of Dialectic, addressed to Aristagoras, one book. 
2565.   

2566. I. Logic. 

2567. On the Terms used in Dialectic, addressed to Zeno, one book. 
2568. Dialectical Definitions addressed to Metrodorus, six books. 
2569. The Philosopher’s Inquiries. 
2570. Logical Theses. 
2571. As the reputation of his writings stands so high, I have decided to make a separate catalogue of them, arranged according to the class of subject treated. And they are as follows:
2572. And yet what reason is there that he should provide a living? For if it be to support life, life itself is after all a thing indifferent. If it be for pleasure, pleasure too is a thing indifferent. While if it be for virtue, virtue in itself is sufficient 
2573. e.g.
2574.   
	
2575. Indeed, his interpretation of the story is condemned as most indecent. He may be commending physical doctrine; but the language used is more appropriate to street-walkers than to deities; and it is moreover not even mentioned by bibliographers, who wrote on the titles of books. What Chrysippus makes of it is not to be found in Polemo nor Hypsicrates, no, nor even in Antigonus. It is his own invention. Again, in his 
2576. a priori
2577. On the Means of Livelihood
2578. On Justice
2579. On Things for their own Sake not Desirable
2580. Republic
2581.   

2582. There are people who run Chrysippus down as having written much in a tone that is gross and indecent. For in his work 
2583. On the ancient Natural Philosophers
2584. Again: 
2585. If you never lost something, you have it still; but you never lost horns, 
2586. ergo
2587. If you say something, it passes through your lips: now you say wagon, consequently a wagon passes through your lips.
2588. If anyone is in Megara, he is not in Athens: now there is a man in Megara, 
2589.   
	
2590. To return to the philosopher. He used to propound arguments such as the following: 
2591. There is a certain head, and that head you have not. Now this being so, there is a head which you have not, therefore you are without a head.
2592. What is not in the city is not in the house either: now there is no well in the city, 
2593. ergo
2594. Cf. supr.
2595. He who divulges the mysteries to the uninitiated is guilty of impiety. Now the hierophant certainly does reveal the mysteries to the uninitiated, 
2596. ergo
2597. There was another Chrysippus, a native of Cnidus, a physician,
2598. Agriculture.
2599. Or perhaps a grandson, as Wilamowitz suggests, 
2600. Antig. von Kar.
2601. N.H.
2602. ad loc.
2603. Cf.
2604.   

2605. He appears to have been a very arrogant man.
2606. Men of the Same Name.
2607. In §§ 185-189; 
2608. sq.
2609. Antig. von K.
2610. cf.
2611. Another account is that his death was caused by a violent fit of laughter; for after an ass had eaten up his figs, he cried out to the old woman, 
2612. Now give the ass a drink of pure wine to wash down the figs.
2613.   

2614. On one occasion, as Hermippus relates, when he had his school in the Odeum, he was invited by his pupils to a sacrificial feast. There after he had taken a draught of sweet wine unmixed with water, he was seized with dizziness and departed this life five days afterwards, having reached the age of seventy-three years, in the 143rd Olympiad.
2615. Chrysippus turned giddy after gulping down a draught of Bacchus; he spared not the Porch nor his country nor his own life, but fared straight to the house of Hades. 
2616. Anth. Pal.
2617. Chronology.
2618. 208-204 b.c.
2619. And this explains his arguing at one time against, and at another in support of, ordinary experience, and his use of the method of the Academy when treating of magnitudes and numbers. 
2620.   

2621. At last, however,—so we are told by Sotion in his eighth book,—he joined Arcesilaus and Lacydes and studied philosophy under them in the Academy. 
2622. At wine-parties he used to behave quietly, though he was unsteady on his legs; which caused the woman-slave to say, 
2623. But for Chrysippus, there had been no Porch.
2624. He alone has understanding; the others flit shadow-like around; 
2625. Od.
2626. To me: for, if I had dreamt of there being anyone better than 
2627. To whom shall I entrust my son?
2628. As for Chrysippus, only his legs get tipsy.
2629.   

2630. In person he was insignificant, as is shown by the statue in the Ceramicus, which is almost hidden by an equestrian statue hard by; and this is why Carneades called him Crypsippus or Horse-hidden. Once when somebody reproached him for not going with the multitude to hear Ariston, he rejoined, 
2631. Ah! brother mine, thine eye is growing wild: 

2632. Eur. 
2633. Or.
2634. Cease to distract your elder from matters of importance; propound such quibbles to us juniors.
2635. If I had followed the multitude, I should not have studied philosophy.
2636.   
	
2637. Apollodorus of Athens in his 
2638. If one were to strip the books of Chrysippus of all extraneous quotations, his pages would be left bare.
2639. Collection of Doctrines
2640.   

2641. So renowned was he for dialectic that most people thought, if the gods took to dialectic, they would adopt no other system than that of Chrysippus. He had abundance of matter, but in style he was not successful. In industry he surpassed every one, as the list of his writings shows; for there are more than 705 of them. He increased their number by arguing repeatedly on the same subject, setting down anything that occurred to him, making many corrections and citing numerous authorities. So much so that in one of his treatises he copied out nearly the whole of Euripides’ 
2642. The 
2643. Medea
2644. Medea
2645.  
	
2646. Chrysippus, the son of Apollonius, came either from Soli or from Tarsus, as Alexander relates in his 
2647. Blest in all else am I, save only where 

2648. Eur. 
2649. Or.
2650. Successions.
2651. Chapter 7. CHRYSIPPUS (c. 282-206 B.C.)
2652. 

2653.   

2654. The books that he wrote were as follows: 

2655. Letters. 
2656. Of Ambiguous Terms. 
2657. Of Predicates. 
2658. Handbook of Dialectic, two books. 
2659. Of Death. 
2660. Of Fame. 
2661. Of Wealth. 
2662. Of Discourse. 
2663. Of Contradictions, three books. 
2664. Of Habit. 
2665. Of Terms. 
2666. Of Similars. 
2667. Of the School of Eretria. 
2668. Dialogues on Love. 
2669. On Divination. 
2670. Of Law. 
2671. Of Lycurgus and Socrates, three books. 
2672. Of the Spartan Constitution. 
2673. Of Kingship. 
2674. Of the Passions, two books. 
2675. Of Impulse. 
2676. Of Duty. 
2677. On the Right Arrangement of Ethical Doctrine. 
2678. A Course of Five Lectures on Heraclitus. 
2679. Of Organs of Sense. 
2680. Against Atoms and Images. 
2681. Of Minimal Parts. 
2682. Of Fortune. 
2683. Of Seed. 
2684. Of Elements. 
2685. Of the Cosmos, two books. 
2686.  

2687. Amongst those who after the death of Zeno became pupils of Cleanthes was Sphaerus of Bosporus, as already mentioned.
2688. Being of such quality as he is, Ptolemy is indeed a king.
2689. I assented not to the proposition that they are pomegranates, but to another, that there are good grounds for thinking them to be pomegranates. Certainty of presentation and reasonable probability are two totally different things.
2690. You have given your assent to a presentation which is false.
2691. Cf. sup.
2692. 222-205 b.c.
2693.  § 37.
2694. Chapter 6. SPHAERUS (flor. c. 220 B.C.)
2695. 

2696.   

2697. My lighter verse
2698. I praise Cleanthes, but praise Hades more, 

2699. Anth. Plan.
2700. His end was as follows. He had severe inflammation of the gums, and by the advice of his doctors he abstained from food for two whole days. As it happened, this treatment succeeded, so that the doctors were for allowing him to resume his usual diet. To this, however, he would not consent, but declaring that he had already got too far on the road, he went on fasting the rest of his days until his death at the same age as Zeno according to some authorities, having spent nineteen years as Zeno’s pupil. 
2701.   

2702. This, then, is the list of his works. 
2703. Of Predicates. 
2704. Of Moods or Tropes. 
2705. Of Dialectic. 
2706. On Insoluble Problems. 
2707. On Properties. 
2708. Of Pleasure. 
2709. Lectures, two books. 
2710. Of Usages. 
2711. On the Wise Man turning Sophist. 
2712. On the Thesis that Virtue is the same in Man and in Woman. 
2713. On the Banquet. 
2714. Of Friendship. 
2715. Of Kingship. 
2716. Of Knowledge. 
2717. Of Conduct. 
2718. Of Beauty. 
2719. Of the End. 
2720. Of Logic, three books. 
2721. Of Education. 
2722. Of Litigation. 
2723. Of Laws. 
2724. Of Deliberation. 
2725. The Statesman. 
2726. Of Fame. 
2727. Of Honour. 
2728. The Art of Love. 
2729. Of Freedom. 
2730. Of Love. 
2731. Of Envy. 
2732. Of Gorgippus. 
2733. Of Natural Ability. 
2734. Of the Virtues. 
2735. An Exhortation. 
2736. Of Gratitude. 
2737. Of Good Counsel. 
2738. Of Duty, three books. 
2739. On Homer. 
2740. Of Marriage. 
2741. Of Giants. 
2742. Of the Gods. 
2743. Antiquities. 
2744.   

2745. He has left some very fine writings, which are as follows:

2746. Of Impulse, two books. 
2747. A Reply to Herillus. 
2748. A Reply to Aristarchus. 
2749. A Reply to Democritus. 
2750. Of Art. 
2751. De Sensu. 
2752. Interpretations of Heraclitus, four books. 
2753. Of Zeno’s Natural Philosophy, two books. 
2754. Of Time. 
2755. To the solitary man who talked to himself he remarked, 
2756. I too am ready to depart; but when again I consider that I am in all points in good health and that I can still write and read, I am content to wait.
2757. You are not talking to a bad man.
2758.   

2759. He was present in the theatre when the poet Sositheus uttered the verse— 

2760. he is effeminate.
2761. I have it,
2762. Driven by Cleanthes’ folly like dumb herds,
2763. Nauck, 
2764. 2
2765. T.G.F.
2766.   

2767. When some one inquired of him what lesson he ought to give his son, Cleanthes in reply quoted words from the 
2768. Why, then, don’t I see that you see?
2769. Do you see?
2770. Dicit autem Hecato in Sententiis eum, cum adulescens quidam formosus dixisset, Si pulsans ventrem ventrizat, pulsans coxas coxizat, dixisse, Tibi habeas, adulescens, coxizationes: nempe vocabula quae conveniunt analogia non semper etiam significatione conveniunt.
2771. Thou art of gentle blood, dear child.
2772. Hom. 
2773. Od.
2774. Silence, silence, light be thy step.
2775. Eur. 
2776. El.
2777. Electra
2778.   

2779. Once when he was reproached with cowardice, he replied, 
2780. True, but my flattery consists in alleging that your theory is incompatible with your practice.
2781. I am not to be won by flattery.
2782. No more of this; do not censure him. For if by his words he does away with duty, he maintains it at all events by his deeds.
2783. An old man with grey hairs and no wits.
2784. Who is it you are scolding so?
2785. That is why I so seldom go wrong.
2786.   

2787. And he used to put up with gibes from his fellowpupils and did not mind being called the ass, telling 
2788. And one day he produced a handful of small coin before his acquaintance and said, 
2789. Who is this that like a bell-wether ranges over the ranks of men, a dullard, lover of verse, hailing from Assos,
2790. Diels’ reading 
2791. λίθος
2792. Frag. 41 D.
2793. Cleanthes could even maintain a second Cleanthes, if he liked, whereas those who possess the means to keep themselves yet seek to live at the expense of others, and that too though they have plenty of time to spare from their studies.
2794. 

2795. and then to have been acquitted on producing as his witnesses the gardener in whose garden he drew water and the woman who sold the meal which he used to crush. The Areopagites were satisfied and voted him a 
2796. A slave allowed by his master to hire himself out to another master was bound by Attic law to refund to his own master a part (
2797. ἀποφορά
2798. Is drawing water all I do? What? Do I not dig? What? Do I not water the garden? or undertake any other labour for the love of philosophy?
2799. Men of the Same Name.
2800.  
	
2801. Cleanthes, son of Phanias, was a native of Assos. This man, says Antisthenes in his 
2802. Successions of Philosophers
2803. Chapter 5. CLEANTHES (331-232 b.c.)
2804. 

2805.  

2806. These three, then, are the heterodox Stoics. The legitimate successor to Zeno, however, was Cleanthes: of whom we have now to speak. 
2807. The following works are attributed to him: 

2808. Of the Customs of Barbarians. 
2809. Of those who are Praised. 
2810. Of Ancient Kings. 
2811. Of Prosperity. 
2812. How to live amongst Men. 
2813. Of Wealth, Popularity and Revenge 
2814. Of Pleasure, four books. 
2815. On Training, two books. 
2816. Of Apathy, two books 
2817. At the outset of his career he was fond of literature and tried his hand at all kinds of poetry; afterwards he took Aratus
2818. Φαινόμενα
2819. i.e.
2820.  

2821. He was the son of Theophantus and a native of Heraclea. At first, as Diocles relates, he was a pupil of his fellow-townsman, Heraclides, next of Alexinus and Menedemus, and lastly of Zeno. 
2822. Dionysius, the Renegade,
2823. Cf.
2824. Chapter 4. DIONYSIUS (c. 330-250 b.c.)
2825. 

2826.  

2827. His books are the following: 
2828. Ethical Themes. 
2829. Dialogues. 
2830. Medea. 
2831. Hermes. 
2832. The Controller. 
2833. The Reviser. 
2834. The Teacher. 
2835. The Challenger. 
2836. The Obstetrician. 
2837. The Legislator. 
2838. Concerning Opinion or Belief. 
2839. Of the Passions. 
2840. Of Training. 
2841. He is said to have had many admirers when a boy; and as Zeno wished to drive them away, he compelled Herillus to have his head shaved, which disgusted them. 
2842.  

2843. Herillus of Carthage declared the end of action to be Knowledge, that is, so to live always as to make the scientific life the standard in all things and not to be misled by ignorance. Knowledge he defined as a habit of mind, not to be upset by argument, in the acceptance of presentations. Sometimes he used to say there was no single end of action, but it shifted according to varying circumstances and objects, as the same bronze might become a statue either of Alexander or of Socrates. He made a distinction between end-in-chief and subordinate end: even the unwise may aim at the latter, but only the wise seek the true end of life. Everything that lies between virtue and vice he pronounced indifferent. His writings, though they do not occupy much space, are full of vigour and contain some controversial passages in reply to Zeno. 
2844. Chapter 3. HERILLUS (flor. c. 260 b.c.)
2845. 

2846.   

2847. There was also another Ariston, a native of Iulis
2848. The town in Ceos to which Bacchylides belonged: Ael 
2849. Var. Hist.
2850. The story goes that being bald he had a sunstroke and so came to his end. I have composed a trifling poem upon him in limping iambics as follows
2851. Wherefore, Ariston, when old and bald did you let the sun roast your forehead? Thus seeking warmth more than was reasonable, you lit unwillingly upon the chill reality of Death. 
2852. Anth. Plan.
2853.   

2854. Panaetius and Sosicrates consider the Letters to be alone genuine; all the other works named they attribute to Ariston the Peripatetic. 
2855. The books attributed to him are as follows: 

2856. Letters to Cleanthes, four books. 
2857. Against the Dialecticians, three books. 
2858. An Answer to the Counter-pleas of Alexinus. 
2859. Against the Rhetoricians. 
2860. Anecdotes, eleven books. 
2861. Memorabilia, three books. 
2862. Notebooks, twenty-five volumes. 
2863. Commonplaces on Vainglory. 
2864. Dissertations on Love. 
2865. Dissertations on Philosophy, seven books. 
2866. Lectures, six books. 
2867. Dialogues. 
2868. Of Zeno’s Doctrines. 
2869. Exhortations, two books. 
2870. When some Academic alleged that he had no certainty of anything, Ariston said, 
2871. Who can have blinded you? who robbed you of luminous eyesight?
2872. No,
2873. Do you not even see your neighbour sitting by you?
2874.   

2875. After meeting Polemo, says Diocles of Magnesia, while Zeno was suffering from a protracted illness, he recanted his views. The Stoic doctrine to which he attached most importance was the wise man’s refusal to hold mere opinions. And against this doctrine Persaeus was contending when he induced one of a pair of twins to deposit a certain sum with Ariston and afterwards got the other to reclaim it. Ariston being thus reduced to perplexity was refuted. He was at variance with Arcesilaus; and one day when he saw an abortion in the shape of a bull with 
2876. Alas, here Arcesilaus has had given into his hand an argument against the evidence of the senses.
2877.   

2878. Dialectical reasonings, he said, are like spiders’ webs, which, though they seem to display some artistic workmanship, are yet of no use. He would not admit a plurality of virtues with Zeno, nor again with the Megarians one single virtue called by many names; but he treated virtue in accordance with the category of relative modes. Teaching this sort of philosophy, and lecturing in the Cynosarges, he acquired such influence as to be called the founder of a sect. At any rate Miltiades and Diphilus were denominated Aristoneans. He was a plausible speaker and suited the taste of the general public. Hence Timon’s verse about him
2879. One who from wily Ariston’s line boasts his descent.
2880. So Wachsmuth. Diels would prefer: 
2881. deriving winning manners from the wiles of Ariston.
2882. Frag. 40 D.
2883.  

2884. Ariston the Bald, of Chios, who was also called the Siren, declared the end of action to be a life of perfect indifference to everything which is neither virtue nor vice; recognizing no distinction whatever 
2885. Chapter 2. ARISTON (c. 320-250 b.c.)
2886. 

2887. 

2888. Such is the summary of their Physics which I have deemed adequate, my aim being to preserve a due proportion in my work. But the points on which certain of the Stoics differed from the rest are the following. 
2889.   
	
2890. Chrysippus in the second book of his 
2891. Physics
2892.   

2893. Semen is by them defined as that which is capable of generating offspring like the parent. And the human semen which is emitted by a human parent in a moist vehicle is mingled with parts of the soul, blended in the same ratio in which they are present in the parent. 
2894. We hear when the air between the sonant body and the organ of hearing suffers concussion, a vibration which spreads spherically and then forms waves and strikes upon the ears, just as the water in a reservoir forms wavy circles when a stone is thrown into it. Sleep is caused, they say, by the slackening of the tension in our senses, which affects the ruling part of 
2895.   

2896. They count eight parts of the soul: the five senses, the generative power in us, our power of speech, and that of reasoning. They hold that we see when the light between the visual organ and the object stretches in the form of a cone: so Chrysippus in the second book of his 
2897. Physics
2898. Zeno of Citium and Antipater, in their treatises 
2899. Plac.
2900. Cf.
2901. De anima
2902.   

2903. Nature in their view is an artistically working fire, going on its way to create; which is equivalent to a fiery, creative, or fashioning breath. And the soul is a nature capable of perception. And they regard it as the breath of life, congenital with us; from which they infer first that it is a body and secondly that it survives death. Yet it is perishable, though the soul of the universe, of which the individual souls of animals are parts, is indestructible.
2904. And there are five terrestrial zones: first, the northern zone which is beyond the arctic circle, uninhabitable because of the cold; second, a temperate zone; a third, uninhabitable because of great heats, called the torrid zone; fourth, a counter-temperate zone; fifth, the southern zone, uninhabitable because of its cold. 
2905.   

2906. They maintain that the parts of the world are arranged thus. The earth is in the middle answering to a centre; next comes the water, which is shaped like a sphere all round it, concentric with the earth, so that the earth is in water. After the water comes a spherical layer of air. There are five celestial circles: first, the arctic circle, which is always visible; second, the summer tropic; third, the circle of the equinox; fourth, the winter tropic; and fifth, the antarctic, which is invisible to us. They are called parallel, because they do not incline towards one another; yet they are described round the same centre.
2907. The 
2908. κέντρον
2909.   

2910. Thunderbolt is the term used when the fire is 
2911. For 
2912. κλιματίας.
2913. καυματίας
2914. prester
2915.   
	
2916. A shooting star is the sudden kindling of a mass of fire in rapid motion through the air, which leaves a trail behind it presenting an appearance of length. Rain is the transformation of cloud into water, when moisture drawn up by the sun from land or sea has been only partially evaporated. If this is cooled down, it is called hoar-frost. Hail is frozen cloud, crumbled by a wind; while snow is moist matter from a cloud which has congealed: so Posidonius in the eighth book of his 
2917. On the Whole
2918. Physical Discourse.
2919.   
	
2920. spring as the right temperature of the air consequent upon his approach to us; summer as the heating of the air above the earth when he travels to the north; while autumn they attribute to the receding of the sun from us. As for the winds, they are streams of air, differently named
2921. Meteorology
2922. The lacuna of the mss. can be filled from the parallel passage of Aetius, Diels, 
2923. Doxographi Graeci
2924.   
	
2925. Of the changes which go on in the air, they describe winter as the cooling of the air above the earth due to the sun’s departure to a distance from the earth; 
2926. Also they hold that there are daemons (
2927. δαίμονες
2928. Hence, again, their explanation of the mixture of two substances is, according to Chrysippus in the third book of his 
2929. For the meaning of this verb (
2930. Mor.
2931. H.F.
2932. συμφθείρεσθαι
2933. Physics
2934.   
	
2935. The primary matter they make the substratum of all things: so Chrysippus in the first book of his 
2936. ad infinitum
2937. ad infinitum.
2938. Physics.
2939. On Substance
2940. Physics
2941.   
	
2942. Nature, they hold, aims both at utility and at pleasure, as is clear from the analogy of human craftsmanship. That all things happen by fate or destiny is maintained by Chrysippus in his treatise 
2943. De divinatione.
2944. Physical Discourse
2945. De divinatione
2946. De fato
2947. De fato
2948. De fato
2949.   

2950. The substance of God is declared by Zeno to be the whole world and the heaven, as well as by Chrysippus in his first book 
2951. Or perhaps 
2952. seminal proportions.
2953. On Nature
2954. On the Cosmos
2955. Of the Gods
2956.   

2957. The deity, say they, is a living being, immortal, rational, perfect or intelligent in happiness, admitting nothing evil [into him], taking providential care of the world and all that therein is, but he is not of human shape. He is, however, the artificer of the universe and, as it were, the father of all, both in general and in that particular part of him which is all-pervading, and which is called many names according to its various powers. They give the name Dia (
2958. ζῆν
2959. Ζῆνα
2960. διά
2961. Δία
2962.   

2963. For the moon is seen approaching at conjunctions and 
2964. i.e.
2965. 
	
2966. An eclipse of the sun takes place when the moon passes in front of it on the side towards us, as shown by Zeno with a diagram in his treatise 
2967. On the Whole.
2968. The moon, however, is of a more earthy composition, since it is nearer to the earth. These fiery bodies and the stars generally derive their nutriment, the sun from the wide ocean, being a fiery kindling, though intelligent; the moon from fresh waters, with an admixture of air, close to the earth as it is: thus Posidonius in the sixth book of his 
2969. Physics
2970.   
	
2971. Of the stars some are fixed, and are carried round with the whole heaven; others, the wandering stars or planets, have their special motions. The sun travels in an oblique path through the zodiac. Similarly the moon travels in a spiral path. The sun is pure fire: so Posidonius in the seventh book of his 
2972. Physical Discourse.
2973. Celestial Phenomena.
2974.   
	
2975. It is a living thing in the sense of an animate substance endowed with sensation; for animal is better than non-animal, and nothing is better than the world, 
2976. Physical Discourse.
2977. Physics
2978. On the Whole
2979. ergo
2980.   
	
2981. The doctrine that the world is a living being, rational, animate and intelligent, is laid down by Chrysippus in the first book of his treatise 
2982. Physics
2983. On Providence
2984. The world, they hold, comes into being when its substance has first been converted from fire through air into moisture and then the coarser part of the moisture has condensed as earth, while that whose particles are fine has been turned into air, and this process of rarefaction goes on increasing till it generates fire. Thereupon out of these elements animals and plants and all other natural kinds are formed by their mixture. The generation and the destruction of the world are discussed by Zeno in his treatise 
2985. On the Cosmos.
2986. On the Cosmos
2987. Physics
2988. On the Whole
2989.   

2990. Time too is incorporeal, being the measure of the world’s motion. And time past and time future are infinite, but time present is finite. They hold that the world must come to an end, inasmuch as it had a beginning, on the analogy of those things which are understood by the senses. And that of which the parts are perishable is perishable as a whole. Now the parts of the world are perishable, seeing that they are transformed one into the other. Therefore the world itself is doomed to perish. Moreover, anything is destructible if it admits of deterioration; therefore the world is so, for it is first evaporated and again dissolved into water. 
2991.   
	
2992. The world, they say, is one and finite, having a spherical shape, such a shape being the most suitable for motion, as Posidonius says in the fifth book of his 
2993. The reading 
2994. εἶναι δὲ καὶ τὰ ἀσώματα ὁμοίως,
2995. the meanings of spoken words are also incorporeal.
2996. λεκτά,
2997. ταῦτα
2998. ἀσώματα
2999. i.e.
3000. Physical Discourse
3001. Physics
3002. Physical Sciences
3003. On Void
3004. Physical Discourse
3005.   

3006. For through some parts it passes as a 
3007. On the Gods
3008. On Providence
3009. On the Cosmos.
3010. hold
3011.   

3012. The world,
3013. On the Gods
3014. On Providence
3015. τὸ ὅλον.
3016. Universe,
3017. κόσμος.
3018. World
3019. (2) Again, they give the name of cosmos to the orderly 
3020. Celestial Phenomena
3021.   

3022. The term universe or cosmos is used by them in three senses: (1) of God himself, the individual being whose quality is derived from the whole of substance; he is indestructible and ingenerable, being the artificer of this orderly arrangement, who at stated periods of time absorbs into himself the whole of substance and again creates it from himself. 
3023. The four elements together constitute unqualified substance or matter. Fire is the hot element, water the moist, air the cold, earth the dry. Not but what the quality of dryness is also found in the air.
3024. τὸ αὐτὸ μέρος
3025. The same part
3026.   
	
3027. In the beginning he was by himself; he transformed the whole of substance through air into water, and just as in animal generation the seed has a moist vehicle, so in cosmic moisture God, who is the seminal reason of the universe, remains behind in the moisture as such an agent, adapting matter to himself with a view to the next stage of creation. Thereupon he created first of all the four elements, fire, water, air, earth. They are discussed by Zeno in his treatise 
3028. On Elements.
3029. Physics,
3030. On the Whole
3031.   
	
3032. God is one and the same with Reason, Fate, and Zeus; he is also called by many other names. 
3033. Body is defined by Apollodorus in his 
3034. Celestial Phenomena.
3035. Physics
3036.   
	
3037. They hold that there are two principles in the universe, the active principle and the passive. The passive principle, then, is a substance without quality, 
3038. Physical Exposition.
3039. On Elements,
3040. Physics
3041. On Atoms,
3042. On Existence,
3043. i.e.
3044.  

3045. this includes such questions as what the substance of the universe is, whether the sun and the stars are made up of form and matter, whether the world has had a beginning in time or not, whether it is animate or inanimate, whether it is destructible or indestructible, whether it is governed by providence, and all the rest. The part concerned with causation, again, is itself subdivided into two. And in one of its aspects medical inquiries have a share in it, in so far as it involves investigation of the ruling principle of the soul and the phenomena of 
3046. e.g.
3047.   

3048. The part dealing with the universe admits, they say, of division into two: for with one aspect of it the mathematicians also are concerned, in so far as they treat questions relating to the fixed stars and the planets, 
3049. αὐτοῦ τοῦ κόσμου.
3050. e.g.
3051. Their physical doctrine they divide into sections (1) about bodies; (2) about principles; (3) about elements; (4) about the gods; (5) about bounding surfaces and space whether filled or empty. This is a division into species; but the generic division is into three parts, dealing with (i.) the universe; (ii.) the elements; (iii.) the subject of causation. 
3052.   
	
3053. Such, then, are the statements they make in their ethical doctrines, with much more besides, together with their proper proofs: let this, however, suffice for a statement of them in a summary and elementary form. 
3054. It is also their doctrine that amongst the wise there should be a community of wives with free choice of partners, as Zeno says in his 
3055. The words in brackets read like a marginal note, afterwards inserted in the text.
3056. On Government
3057. Republic
3058.   

3059. Of the three kinds of life, the contemplative, the practical, and the rational, they declare that we ought to choose the last, for that a rational being is expressly produced by nature for contemplation and for action. They tell us that the wise man will for reasonable cause make his own exit from life, on his country’s behalf or for the sake of his friends, or if he suffer intolerable pain, mutilation, or incurable disease. 
3060. Their definition of love is an effort toward friendliness due to visible beauty appearing, its sole end being friendship, not bodily enjoyment. At all events, they allege that Thrasonides, although he had his mistress in his power, abstained from her because she hated him. By which it is shown, they think, that love depends upon regard, as Chrysippus says in his treatise 
3061. Of Love
3062.   
	
3063. It is their doctrine that there can be no question of right as between man and the lower animals, because of their unlikeness. Thus Chrysippus in the first book of his treatise 
3064. Ethics.
3065. On Modes of Life,
3066. Republic,
3067. De officio.
3068. On Justice,
3069. Neither do they think that the divergence of opinion between philosophers is any reason for abandoning the study of philosophy, since at that rate we should have to give up life altogether: so Posidonius in his 
3070. Exhortations.
3071.   

3072. Another tenet of theirs is the perpetual exercise of virtue, as held by Cleanthes and his followers. For virtue can never be lost, and the good man is always exercising his mind, which is perfect. Again, they say that justice, as well as law and right reason, exists by nature and not by convention: so Chrysippus in his work 
3073. On the Morally Beautiful.
3074. For if magnanimity by itself alone can raise us far above everything, and if magnanimity is but a part of virtue, then too virtue as a whole will be sufficient in itself for well-being —despising all things that seem troublesome.
3075.   

3076. the latter takes it to be inalienable owing to the certainty of our mental apprehension. And virtue in itself they hold to be worthy of choice for its own sake. At all events we are ashamed of bad conduct as if we knew that nothing is really good but the morally beautiful. Moreover, they hold that it is in itself sufficient to ensure well-being: thus Zeno, and Chrysippus in the first book of his treatise 
3077. On Goods
3078. On Virtues
3079. It is a tenet of theirs that between virtue and vice there is nothing intermediate, whereas according to the Peripatetics there is, namely, the state of moral improvement. For, say the Stoics, just as a stick must be either straight or crooked, so a man must be either just or unjust. Nor again are there degrees of justice and injustice; and the same rule applies to the other virtues. Further, while Chrysippus holds that virtue can be lost, Cleanthes maintains that it cannot. According to the former it may be lost in consequence of drunkenness or melancholy; 
3080.   

3081. For if a man be possessed of virtue, he is at once able to discover and to put into practice what he ought to do. Now such rules of conduct comprise rules for choosing, enduring, staying, and distributing; so that if a man does some things by intelligent choice, some things with fortitude, some things by way of just distribution, and some steadily, he is at once wise, courageous, just, and temperate. And each of the virtues has a particular subject with which it deals, as, for instance, courage is concerned with things that must be endured, practical wisdom with acts to be done, acts from which one must abstain, and those which fall under neither head. Similarly each of the other virtues is concerned with its own proper sphere. To wisdom are subordinate good counsel and understanding; to temperance, good discipline and orderliness; to justice, equality and fair-mindedness; to courage, constancy and vigour. 
3082.   

3083. They hold that the virtues involve one another, and that the possessor of one is the possessor of all, 
3084. On Virtues.
3085. Physics according to the Early School,
3086. On Virtues,
3087. Furthermore, the wise man does all things well, just as we say that Ismenias plays all airs on the flute well. Also everything belongs to the wise. For the law, they say, has conferred upon them a perfect right to all things. It is true that certain things are said to belong to the bad, just as what has been dishonestly acquired may be said, in one sense, to belong to the state, in another sense to those who are enjoying it. 
3088.   

3089. And the wise man, they say, will offer prayers, and ask for good things from the gods: so Posidonius in the first book of his treatise 
3090. On Paradoxes.
3091. On Duties
3092.   

3093. They are also without offence; for they do no hurt to others or to themselves. At the same time they are not pitiful and make no allowance for anyone; they never relax the penalties fixed by the laws, since indulgence and pity and even equitable consideration are marks of a weak mind, which affects kindness in place of chastizing. Nor do they deem punishments too severe. Again, they say that the wise man never wonders at any of the 
3094. Regarded as passages down to the underworld; 
3095. seq.
3096. Aen.
3097. cf.
3098.   

3099. though indeed there is also a second form of slavery consisting in subordination, and a third which implies possession of the slave as well as his subordination; the correlative of such servitude being lordship; and this too is evil. Moreover, according to them not only are the wise free, they are also kings; kingship being irresponsible rule, which none but the wise can maintain: so Chrysippus in his treatise vindicating Zeno’s use of terminology. For he holds that knowledge of good and evil is a necessary attribute of the ruler, and that no bad man is acquainted with this science. Similarly the wise and good alone are fit to be magistrates, judges, or orators, whereas among the bad there is not one so qualified. Furthermore, the wise are infallible, not being liable to error. 
3100.   

3101. Again, the Stoics say that the wise man will take part in politics, if nothing hinders him—so, for instance, Chrysippus in the first book of his work 
3102. Ethics
3103. Republic,
3104. On Various Types of Life
3105. But Heraclides of Tarsus, who was the disciple of Antipater of Tarsus, and Athenodorus both assert that sins are not equal. 
3106.   
	
3107. The Stoics approve also of honouring parents and brothers in the second place next after the gods. They further maintain that parental affection for children is natural to the good, but not to the bad. It is one of their tenets that sins are all equal: so Chrysippus in the fourth book of his 
3108. Ethical Questions,
3109.   

3110. They are also, it is declared, godlike; for they have a something divine within them; whereas the bad man is godless. And yet of this word—godless or ungodly—there are two senses, one in which it is the opposite of the term 
3111. godly,
3112.   
	
3113. Again, the good are genuinely in earnest and vigilant for their own improvement, using a manner of life which banishes evil out of sight and makes what good there is in things appear. At the same time they are free from pretence; for they have stripped off all pretence or 
3114. Ethics
3115. make-up
3116.   

3117. Now they say that the wise man is passionless, because he is not prone to fall into such infirmity. But they add that in another sense the term apathy is applied to the bad man, when, that is, it means that he is callous and relentless. Further, the wise 
3118.   

3119. Also they say that there are three emotional states which are good, namely, joy, caution, and wishing. Joy, the counterpart of pleasure, is rational elation; caution, the counterpart of fear, rational avoidance; for though the wise man will never feel fear, he will yet use caution. And they make wishing the counterpart of desire (or craving), inasmuch as it is rational appetency. And accordingly, as under the primary passions are classed certain others subordinate to them, so too is it with the primary eupathies or good emotional states. Thus under wishing they bring well-wishing or benevolence, friendliness, respect, affection; under caution, reverence and modesty; under joy, delight, mirth, cheerfulness. 
3120.   

3121. And as there are said to be certain infirmities in the body, as for instance gout and arthritic disorders, so too there is in the soul love of fame, love of pleasure, and the like. By infirmity is meant disease accompanied by weakness; and by disease is meant a fond imagining of something that seems desirable. And as in the body there are tendencies to certain maladies such as colds and diarrhoea, so it is with the soul, there are tendencies like enviousness, pitifulness, quarrelsomeness, and the like. 
3122.   

3123. Pleasure is an irrational elation at the accruing of what seems to be choiceworthy; and under it are ranged ravishment, malevolent joy, delight, transport. Ravishment is pleasure which charms the ear. Malevolent joy is pleasure at another’s ills. Delight 
3124. τρέψις
3125. τέρψις
3126. Wrath is anger which has long rankled and has become malicious, waiting for its opportunity, as is illustrated by the lines
3127. Even though for the one day he swallow his anger, yet doth he still keep his displeasure thereafter in his heart, till he accomplish it. 
3128. Il.
3129.   

3130. Desire or craving is irrational appetency, and under it are ranged the following states: want, hatred, contentiousness, anger, love, wrath, resentment. Want, then, is a craving when it is baulked and, as it were, cut off from its object, but kept at full stretch and attracted towards it in vain. Hatred is a growing and lasting desire or craving that it should go ill with somebody. Contentiousness is a craving or desire connected with partisanship; anger a craving or desire to punish one who is thought to have done you an undeserved injury. The passion of love is a craving from which good men are free; for it is an effort to win affection due to the visible presence of beauty. 
3131. panic is fear with pressure exercised by sound; mental agony is fear felt when some issue is still in suspense. 
3132.   

3133. Fear is an expectation of evil. Under fear are ranged the following emotions: terror, nervous shrinking, shame, consternation, panic, mental agony. Terror is a fear which produces fright; shame is fear of disgrace; nervous shrinking is a fear that one will have to act; consternation is fear due to a presentation of some unusual occurrence; 
3134. Heaviness or vexation is grief which weighs us down, annoyance that which coops us up and straitens us for want of room, distress a pain brought on by anxious thought that lasts and increases, anguish painful grief, distraction irrational grief, rasping and hindering us from viewing the situation as a whole. 
3135.   

3136. And grief or pain they hold to be an irrational mental contraction. Its species are pity, envy, jealousy, rivalry, heaviness, annoyance, distress, anguish, distraction. Pity is grief felt at undeserved suffering; envy, grief at others’ prosperity; jealousy, grief at the possession by another of that which one desires for oneself; rivalry, pain at the possession by another of what one has oneself. 
3137. They hold the emotions to be judgements, as is stated by Chrysippus in his treatise 
3138. On the Passions
3139.   

3140. The main, or most universal, emotions, according to Hecato in his treatise 
3141. On the Passions
3142. According to the Stoics there is an eight-fold 
3143. And in things intermediate also there are duties; as that boys should obey the attendants who have charge of them. 
3144.   

3145. Again, some duties are incumbent unconditionally, others in certain circumstances. Unconditional duties are the following: to take proper care of health and one’s organs of sense, and things of that sort. Duties imposed by circumstances are such as maiming oneself and sacrifice of property. And so likewise with acts which are violations of duty. Another division is into duties which are always incumbent and those which are not. To live in accordance with virtue is always a duty, whereas dialectic by question and answer or walking-exercise and the like are not at all times incumbent. The same may be said of the violations of duty. 
3146. Unbefitting, or contrary to duty, are all acts that reason deprecates, 
3147. e.g.
3148.   

3149. Befitting acts are all those which reason prevails with us to do; and this is the case with honouring one’s parents, brothers and country, and intercourse with friends. 
3150. Zeno was the first to use this term 
3151. The ordinary meaning of the verb 
3152. for Athos is a great and famous mountain, reaching down to the sea
3153. ὁ γὰρ Ἄθως ἐστὶ ὄρος μέγα τε καὶ ὀνομαστὸν ἐς θάλασσαν κατῆκον
3154. καθήκειν
3155. i.e.
3156. κατά τινας ἥκειν,
3157. καθῆκον
3158.   

3159. Furthermore, the term Duty is applied to that for which, when done,
3160. e.g.
3161. The reading 
3162. ὂ πραχθὲν εὔλογον ἀπολογίαν ἔχει;
3163. Ecl.
3164. Cf.
3165. καθῆκον,
3166. Duty,
3167. προαχθέν.
3168. πραχθέν
3169. Again, of things preferred some are preferred for their own sake, some for the sake of something else, and others again both for their own sake and for the sake of something else. To the first of these classes belong natural ability, moral improvement, and the like; to the second wealth, noble birth, and the like; to the last strength, perfect faculties, soundness of bodily organs. Things are preferred for their own sake because they accord with nature; not for their own sake, but for the sake of something else, because they secure not a few utilities. And similarly with the class of things rejected under the contrary heads. 
3170.   

3171. Thus things of the preferred class are those which have positive value, 
3172. rejected
3173. e.g.
3174.   

3175. Of things indifferent, as they express it, some are 
3176. With Arnim’s correction, wheat would exchange for 1 1/2 times the quantity of barley. The three meanings of 
3177. ἀμοιβὴν τοῦ δοκιμαστοῦ.
3178. Ecl.
3179. ἀξία
3180. any assistance brought by wealth or health towards living a natural life
3181. contributing, as intermediary (
3182. μέσην
3183. Indirectly
3184. rejected.
3185. preferred,
3186. rejected.
3187. preferred,
3188. Hence of these latter some are taken by preference, others are rejected, whereas indifference in the other sense affords no ground for either choosing or avoiding. 
3189.   

3190. The term 
3191. e.g.
3192. indifferent
3193. To benefit is to set in motion or sustain in accordance with virtue; whereas to harm is to set in motion or sustain in accordance with vice. 
3194.   
	
3195. For as the property of hot is to warm, not to cool, so the property of good is to benefit, not to injure; but wealth and health do no more benefit than injury, therefore neither wealth nor health is good. Further, they say that that is not good of which both good and bad use can be made; but of wealth and health both good and bad use can be made; therefore wealth and health are not goods. On the other hand, Posidonius maintains that these things too are among goods. Hecato in the ninth book of his treatise 
3196. On Pleasure
3197. On Goods
3198.   
	
3199. Goods comprise the virtues of prudence, justice, courage, temperance, and the rest; while the opposites of these are evils, namely, folly, injustice, and 
3200. things preferred.
3201. Ethics.
3202. De fine
3203.   

3204. And they say that only the morally beautiful is good. So Hecato in his treatise 
3205. Since a thing is good, it is beautiful; now it is beautiful, therefore it is good.
3206. beautiful,
3207. good
3208. On the Morally Beautiful.
3209. On Goods
3210.   

3211. The reason why they characterize the perfect good as beautiful is that it has in full all the 
3212. factors
3213.   

3214. It is expedient, because it brings about things of such a kind that by their occurrence we are benefited. It is binding, because it causes unity where unity is needed; profitable, because it defrays what is expended on it, so that the return yields a balance of benefit on the transaction. It is useful, because it secures the use of benefit; it is serviceable, because the utility it affords is worthy of all praise. It is beautiful, because the good is proportionate to the use made of it; beneficial, because by its inherent nature it benefits; choiceworthy, because it is such that to choose it is reasonable. It is also just or right, inasmuch as it is in harmony with law and tends to draw men together. 
3215.   

3216. All good (they say) is expedient, binding, profitable, useful, serviceable, beautiful, beneficial, desirable, and just or right. 
3217. Of mental goods some are habits, others are dispositions, while others again are neither the one nor the other. The virtues are dispositions, while accomplishments or avocations are matters of habit, and activities as such or exercise of faculty neither the one nor the other. And in general there are some mixed goods: 
3218. e.g.
3219.   

3220. The virtues (they say) are goods of the nature at once of ends and of means. On the one hand, in so far as they cause happiness they are means, and on the other hand, in so far as they make it complete, and so are themselves part of it, they are ends. Similarly of evils some are of the nature of ends and some of means, while others are at once both means and ends. Your enemy and the harm he 
3221.   

3222. Again, goods are either of the nature of ends or they are the means to these ends, or they are at the same time end and means. A friend and the advantages derived from him are means to good, whereas confidence, high - spirit, liberty, delight, gladness, freedom from pain, and every virtuous act are of the nature of ends. 
3223. Similarly of things evil some are mental evils, namely, vices and vicious actions; others are outward evils, as to have a foolish country or a foolish friend and the unhappiness of such; other evils again are neither mental nor outward, 
3224. e.g.
3225.   

3226. Again, some goods are goods of the mind and others external, while some are neither mental nor external. The former include the virtues and virtuous acts; external goods are such as having a good country or a good friend, and the prosperity of such. Whereas to be good and happy oneself is of the class of goods neither mental nor external. 
3227. So with evils: either they are vices, folly, cowardice, injustice, and the like; or things which partake of vice, including vicious acts and wicked persons as well as their accompaniments, despair, moroseness, and the like. 
3228.   

3229. Another particular definition of good which they give is 
3230. the natural perfection of a rational being 
3231. qua
3232. Good in general is that from which some advantage comes, and more particularly what is either identical with or not distinct from benefit. Whence it follows that virtue itself and whatever partakes of virtue is called good in these three senses—viz. as being (1) the source from which benefit results; or (2) that in respect of which benefit results, 
3233. e.g.
3234. e.g.
3235.   

3236. Similarly, of vices some are primary, others subordinate: 
3237. e.g.
3238. justice . . .; magnanimity as the knowledge or habit of mind which makes one superior to anything that happens, whether good or evil equally; continence as a disposition never overcome in that which concerns right reason, or a habit which no pleasures can get the better of; endurance as a knowledge or habit which suggests what we are to hold fast to, what not, and what is indifferent; presence of mind as a habit prompt to find out what is meet to be done at any moment; good counsel as knowledge by which we see what to do and how to do it if we would consult our own interests. 
3239.   

3240. Amongst the virtues some are primary, some are subordinate to these. The following are the primary: wisdom, courage, justice, temperance. Particular virtues are magnanimity, continence, endurance, presence of mind, good counsel. And wisdom they define as the knowledge of things good and evil and 
3241. It is obviously not courage which is here defined, but apparently wisdom over again. Hence I have marked a lacuna.
3242. Panaetius, however, divides virtue into two kinds, theoretical and practical; others make a threefold division of it into logical, physical, and ethical; while by the school of Posidonius four types are recognized, and more than four by Cleanthes, Chrysippus, Antipater, and their followers. Apollophanes
3243. One of the older Stoics; 
3244. Frag. Vet. Stoic.
3245. cf.
3246.   
	
3247. These are called non-intellectual, because they do not require the mind’s assent; they supervene and they occur even in bad men: for instance, health, courage. The proof, says Posidonius in the first book of his treatise on 
3248. Protreptica,
3249. On the End,
3250. Ethics,
3251.   

3252. Virtue, in the first place, is in one sense the perfection of anything in general, say of a statue; again, it may be non-intellectual, like health, or intellectual, like prudence. For Hecato says in his first book 
3253. On the Virtues
3254.   

3255. And virtue, he holds, is a harmonious disposition, choice-worthy for its own sake and not from hope or fear or any external motive. Moreover, it is in virtue that happiness consists; for virtue is the state of mind which tends to make the whole of life harmonious. When a rational being is perverted, this is due to the deceptiveness of external pursuits or sometimes to the influence of associates. For the starting-points of nature are never perverse. 
3256. By the nature with which our life ought to be in accord, Chrysippus understands both universal nature and more particularly the nature of man, whereas Cleanthes takes the nature of the universe alone as that which should be followed, without adding the nature of the individual. 
3257.   
	
3258. And this is why the end may be defined as life in accordance with nature, or, in other words, in accordance with our own human nature as well as that of the universe, a life in which we refrain from every action forbidden 
3259.   
	
3260. This is why Zeno was the first (in his treatise 
3261. De finibus
3262. On Ends.
3263. On Pleasure,
3264. life in agreement with nature
3265. On the Nature of Man
3266.   

3267. As for the assertion made by some people that pleasure is the object to which the first impulse of animals is directed, it is shown by the Stoics to be false. For pleasure, if it is really felt, they declare 
3268.   

3269. An animal’s first impulse, say the Stoics, is to selfpreservation, because nature from the outset endears it to itself, as Chrysippus affirms in the first book of his work 
3270. The dearest thing to every animal is its own constitution and its consciousness thereof
3271. On Ends
3272.   

3273. The ethical branch of philosophy they divide as follows: (1) the topic of impulse; (2) the topic of things good and evil; (3) that of the passions; (4) that of virtue; (5) that of the end; (6) that of primary value and of actions; (7) that of duties or the befitting; and (8) of inducements to act or refrain from acting. The foregoing is the subdivision adopted by Chrysippus, Archedemus, Zeno of Tarsus, Apollodorus, Diogenes, Antipater, and Posidonius, and their disciples. Zeno of Citium and Cleanthes treated the subject somewhat less elaborately, as might be expected in an older generation. They, however, did subdivide Logic and Physics as well as Ethics. 
3274.   

3275. Such, then, is the logic of the Stoics, by which they seek to establish their point that the wise man is the true dialectician. For all things, they say, are discerned by means of logical study, including whatever falls within the province of Physics, and again whatever belongs to that of Ethics. For else, say they, as regards statement and reasoning Physics and Ethics could not tell how to express themselves, or again concerning the proper use of terms, how the laws have defined various actions.
3276.  

3277. For if the logician ought to have something to say about the correct use of terms, how could he fail to lay down the proper names for actions?
3278. The vulgate, in which I have made no change, has been regarded with suspicion. Von Arnim conjectures: 
3279.   

3280. There are also certain insoluble arguments
3281. If anyone is here, he is not in Rhodes; but there is some one here, therefore there is not anyone in Rhodes.
3282. It cannot be that if two is few, three is not so likewise, nor that if two or three are few, four is not so; and so on up to ten. But two is few, therefore so also is ten.
3283. Here Laertius, as the text stands, gives examples of the Sorites and the Nobody, but none of the other three fallacies, the Veiled, Concealed, Horned.
3284. Cf. supra
3285.   

3286. From a truth a truth follows, according to the Stoics, as 
3287. The earth exists
3288. The earth flies
3289. e.g.
3290. It is night,
3291. It is dark
3292. It is day
3293. It is light
3294. e.g.
3295. The fourth kind employs a disjunctive proposition and one of the two alternatives in the disjunction as premisses, and its conclusion is the contradictory of the other alternative; 
3296. Either it is day or it is night; but it is not night, therefore it is day.
3297. e.g.
3298. Either A or B; but A is, therefore B is not.
3299. e.g.
3300.   

3301. The first kind of indemonstrable statement is that in which the whole argument is constructed of a hypothetical proposition and the clause with which the hypothetical proposition begins, while the final clause is the conclusion; as 
3302. It is not the case that Plato is both dead and alive; but he is dead, therefore Plato is not alive.
3303. e.g.
3304. If it is day, it is light; but it is night, therefore it is not day.
3305. e.g.
3306. sq.
3307. Pyrrh. Hyp.
3308. Cf.
3309. If the first, then the second; but the first is, therefore the second is.
3310. e.g.
3311.   

3312. Further, arguments may be divided into true and false. The former draw their conclusions by means of true premisses; 
3313. If it is day, it is light; but it is day, therefore Dion is alive.
3314. e.g.
3315. The example is badly chosen, confusing contrary with contradictory.
3316. If virtue does good, vice does harm; but virtue does good, therefore vice does harm.
3317. e.g.
3318.   

3319. Of conclusive some are denoted by the common name of the whole class, 
3320. If Dion is a horse, he is an animal; but Dion is not a horse, therefore he is not an animal.
3321. e.g.
3322. now it is day; therefore it is not night.
3323. It is both day and night
3324. e.g.
3325. If Dion walks, then Dion is in motion; but Dion is walking, therefore Dion is in motion.
3326. e.g.
3327. conclusive proper,
3328.   

3329. Of arguments some are conclusive, others inconclusive. Inconclusive are such that the contradictory of the conclusion is not incompatible with combination 
3330. Adv. math.
3331. Cf.
3332. If it is day, it is light; but it is day, therefore Dion walks.
3333. Symbolical argument is a combination of full argument and mood; 
3334. If Plato is alive, he breathes; but the first is true, therefore the second is true.
3335. e.g.
3336.   

3337. An argument, according to the followers of Crinis, consists of a major premiss, a minor premiss, and a conclusion, such as for example this: 
3338. If the first, then the second; but the first is, therefore the second is.
3339. therefore it is light
3340. it is day
3341. If it is day, it is light
3342. If it is day, it is light; but it is day, therefore it is light.
3343. And there are other shades of difference in propositions and grades of transition from true to false— and conversions of their terms—which we now go on to describe broadly. 
3344. A reasonable proposition is one which has to start with more chances of being true than not, 
3345. I shall be alive to-morrow.
3346. e.g.
3347.   

3348. Again, some things are possible, others impossible; and some things are necessary, others are not necessary. A proposition is possible which admits of being true, there being nothing in external circumstances to prevent it being true, 
3349. Dion is walking.
3350. e.g.
3351. Virtue is beneficial.
3352. The earth flies.
3353. e.g.
3354. Diocles is alive.
3355. e.g.
3356. A probable judgement is one which induces to assent, 
3357. Whoever gave birth to anything, is that thing’s mother.
3358. e.g.
3359.   

3360. An inferential proposition is true if starting from a true premiss it also has a consequent conclusion, as 
3361. Because it is night, Dion is walking.
3362. e.g.
3363. it is day.
3364. it is light
3365. it is light
3366. it is day
3367. Because it is day, it is light,
3368. e.g.
3369. Since it is night, Dion is walking,
3370. e.g.
3371. Since it is day, the sun is above the horizon.
3372. e.g.
3373.   

3374. Opposite in character to the foregoing is a proposition which declares what is less the fact, as 
3375. It is day.
3376. Dion is not walking
3377. If it is day, Dion is walking.
3378. e.g.
3379. It is day.
3380. It is not light,
3381. If it is day, it is light.
3382. e.g.
3383. It is not day.
3384. It is day
3385. e.g.
3386. It is less or not so much night as day.
3387. e.g.
3388.   

3389. A coupled proposition is one which is put together by certain coupling conjunctions, 
3390. It is rather day-time than night.
3391. than
3392. rather
3393. Because it is day, it is light.
3394. e.g.
3395. Because,
3396. Either it is day or it is night.
3397. e.g.
3398. Either,
3399. It is day-time and it is light.
3400. e.g.
3401.   
	
3402. Of propositions that are not simple the hypothetical, according to Chrysippus in his 
3403. Since it is day-time, it is light.
3404. Since
3405. Art of Dialectic
3406. If it is day, it is light.
3407. If.
3408. Art of Dialectic
3409. Dialectics
3410.   

3411. A denial contains a negative part or particle and a predication: such as this, 
3412. He is in motion.
3413. There’s some one walking
3414. Some one is walking,
3415. e.g.
3416. This man is walking.
3417. Dion is walking.
3418. This man is unkind.
3419. No one is walking.
3420.   

3421. With simple propositions are classed those of negation, denial, privation, affirmation, the definitive and the indefinitive; with those that are not simple the hypothetical, the inferential, the coupled or complex, the disjunctive, the causal, and that which indicates more or less. An example of a negative proposition is 
3422. It is not not-day.
3423. e.g.
3424. It is not day.
3425. They 
3426. If it is day, it is light.
3427. e.g.
3428. If it is day, it is day,
3429. e.g.
3430.   

3431. The followers of Chrysippus, Archedemus, Athenodorus, Antipater and Crinis divide propositions into simple and not simple. Simple are those that consist of one or more propositions which are not ambiguous, as 
3432. It is day.
3433. There is also, differing from a proposition or judgement, what may be called a timid suggestion, the expression of which leaves one at a loss, 
3434. Can it be that pain and life are in some sort akin?
3435. e.g.
3436.   

3437. An imperative is something which conveys a command: 
3438. Yea, fair indeed the Parthenon!

3439. Nauck, 
3440. Adesp.
3441. 2
3442. T.G.F.
3443. e.g.
3444. Most glorious son of Atreus, Agamemnon, lord of men.
3445. Iliad
3446. Go thou to the waters of Inachus.
3447. Nauck, 
3448. cf.
3449. Adesp.
3450. 2
3451. T.G.F.
3452. e.g.
3453.   

3454. There is a difference between judgement, interrogation, and inquiry, as also between imperative, adjurative, optative, hypothetical, vocative, whether that to which these terms are applied be a thing or a judgement. For a judgement is that which, when we set it forth in speech, becomes an assertion, and is either false or true: an interrogation is a thing complete in itself like a judgement but demanding an answer, 
3455. He lives in this or that place.
3456. Is it day?
3457. It is day
3458. Is it day?
3459. e.g.
3460.  

3461. A judgement is that which is either true or false, or a thing complete in itself, capable of being denied in and by itself, as Chrysippus says in his 
3462. It is day,
3463. ἀξιοῦν,
3464. ἀξίωμα
3465. A judgement is that which in and by itself can be denied or affirmed, 
3466. Dion is walking.
3467. It is day,
3468. e.g.
3469. Dialectical Definitions
3470.  for here the agent includes himself in the sphere of his action. The oblique cases are genitive, dative, and accusative. 
3471.   
	
3472. A predicate is, according to the followers of Apollodorus, what is said of something; in other words, a thing associated with one or more subjects; or, again, it may be defined as a defective expression which has to be joined on to a nominative case in order to yield a judgement. Of predicates some are adjectival [and so have personal subjects], as 
3473. is both active and passive, as he suits his motions to the shaving.
3474. the man
3475. ὁ ἄνθρωπος καὶ ἀντιδρᾷ καὶ ὥσπερ ἀντιπέπονθε σχηματίζων ἑαυτὸν πρὸς τὸ κείρεσθαι,
3476. L.A.
3477. Cf.
3478. he gets his hair cut
3479. An attempt to distinguish what we call the Middle Voice from the Passive—as 
3480. ὔπτια
3481. ὀρθά
3482. they made compacts with each other,
3483. συνέθεντο,
3484. e.g.
3485. walks.
3486. thinks,
3487. I am seen.
3488. I am heard,
3489. converses
3490. sees,
3491. hears,
3492. We should expect 
3493. 3
3494. Phil. der Gr.
3495. μέλει μοι.
3496. παρασύμβαμα
3497. Vit. Auct.
3498. cf.
3499. τὰ δὲ παρασυμβάματα
3500. to sail through rocks.
3501. e.g.
3502.   

3503. By verbal expression they mean that of which the content corresponds to some rational presentation. Of such expressions the Stoics say that some are complete in themselves and others defective. Those are defective the enunciation of which is unfinished, as 
3504. Socrates writes.
3505. Who?
3506. writes,
3507. e.g.
3508. To the department dealing with things as such and things signified is assigned the doctrine of expressions, including those which are complete in themselves, as well as judgements and syllogisms and that of defective expressions comprising predicates both direct and reversed.
3509. cf. supra
3510. Predicate reversed
3511. Direct Predicate
3512.   

3513. Posidonius defines Dialectic as the science dealing with truth, falsehood, and that which is neither true 
3514. Verbal ambiguity arises when a word properly, rightfully, and in accordance with fixed usage denotes two or more different things, so that at one and the same time we may take it in several distinct senses: 
3515. a dancing-girl
3516. A house has three times
3517. e.g.
3518. Partition in logic is (according to Crinis) classification or distribution of a genus under heads: for instance, Of goods some are mental, others bodily. 
3519.   

3520. Division of a genus means dissection of it into its proximate species, thus: Animals are either rational or irrational (dichotomy). Contrary division dissects the genus into species by contrary qualities: for example, by means of negation, as when all things that are are divided into good and not good. Subdivision is division applied to a previous division: for instance, after saying, 
3521. and of the not good some are bad, some are neither good nor bad (morally indifferent).
3522. Of things that are some are good, some are not good,
3523. Species is that which is comprehended under genus: thus Man is included under Animal. The highest or most universal genus is that which, being itself a genus, has no genus above: namely, reality or the real; and the lowest and most particular species is that which, being itself a species, has no species below it, 
3524. e.g.
3525. A notion or object of thought is a presentation to the intellect, which though not really substance nor 
3526. Ecl.
3527. Cf.
3528.   

3529. A term is, as stated by Antipater in his first book 
3530. e.g.
3531. The author seems to have confused 
3532. καὶ ἡ ἀπόδοσις
3533. ἰδίου ἀπόδοσις
3534. giving back
3535. definition,
3536. term,
3537. On Definitions
3538. On Terms
3539. Posidonius in his treatise 
3540. O mightiest earth, O sky, God’s canopy.
3541. Nauck, 
3542. Eur.
3543. 2
3544. T.G.F.
3545. On Style
3546.   

3547. There are five excellences of speech—pure Greek, lucidity, conciseness, appropriateness, distinction. By good Greek is meant language faultless in point 
3548.   

3549. A common noun or appellative is defined by Diogenes as part of a sentence signifying a common quality, 
3550. = 
3551. the,
3552. ὁ, ἡ, τό, οἱ, αἱ, τά.
3553. e.g.
3554. I speak.
3555. I write,
3556. e.g.
3557. cf. inf.
3558. Sc.
3559. e.g.
3560. e.g.
3561.  

3562. There are, as stated by Diogenes
3563. Probably 
3564. adverb.
3565. mean.
3566. On Words and their Meaning
3567. Language
3568. i.e.
3569. Seven of the letters are vowels, 
3570. βλίτυρι,
3571. b, g, d, k, p, t.
3572. a, e, ē i, o, u, ō
3573.   

3574. Elements of language are the four-and-twenty letters. 
3575. Letter,
3576. For whatever produces an effect is body; and voice, as it proceeds from those who utter it to those who hear it, does produce an effect. Reduced to writing, what was voice becomes a verbal expression, as 
3577. ἡμέρη.
3578. ἡμέρα
3579. day
3580. θάλαττα,
3581. θάλασσα
3582. sea
3583. e.g.
3584. διάλεκτος
3585. It is day.
3586. e.g.
3587. day
3588.   
	
3589. In their theory of dialectic most of them see fit to take as their starting-point the topic of voice. Now voice is a percussion of the air or the proper object of the sense of hearing, as Diogenes the Babylonian says in his handbook 
3590. Physics.
3591. On Voice
3592. On Voice.
3593.   
	
3594. The standard of truth they declare to be the apprehending presentation, 
3595. On the Standard.
3596. Exposition of Doctrine
3597. Physics
3598. i.e.
3599.   

3600. By incidence or direct contact have come our notions of sensible things; by resemblance notions whose origin is something before us, as the notion of Socrates which we get from his bust; while under notions derived from analogy come those which we get (1) by way of enlargement, like that of Tityos or the Cyclops, or (2) by way of diminution, like that of the Pygmy. And thus, too, the centre of the earth was originally conceived on the analogy of smaller spheres. Of notions obtained by transposition creatures with eyes on the chest would be an instance, while the centaur exemplifies those reached by composition, and death those due to contrariety. Furthermore, there are notions which imply a sort of transition to the realm of the imperceptible: such are those of space and of the meaning of terms. The notions of justice and goodness come by nature. Again, privation originates notions; for instance, that of the man without hands. Such are their tenets concerning presentation, sensation, and thought. 
3601.   

3602. The Stoics apply the term sense or sensation (
3603. αἴσθησις
3604.   

3605. Another division of presentations is into rational and irrational, the former being those of rational creatures, the latter those of the irrational. Those which are rational are processes of thought, while those which are irrational have no name. Again, some of our impressions are scientific, others unscientific: at all events a statue is viewed in a totally different way by the trained eye of a sculptor and by an ordinary man. 
3606. According to them some presentations are data of 
3607.   

3608. There is a difference between the process and the outcome of presentation. The latter is a semblance in the mind such as may occur in sleep, while the former is the act of imprinting something on the soul, that is a process of change, as is set forth by Chrysippus in the second book of his treatise 
3609. impression
3610. Of the Soul (
3611. De anima
3612.   

3613. The Stoics agree to put in the forefront the doctrine of presentation and sensation, inasmuch as the standard by which the truth of things is tested is generically a presentation, and again the theory of assent and that of apprehension and thought, which precedes all the rest, cannot be stated apart from presentation. For presentation comes first; then thought, which is capable of expressing itself, puts into the form of a proposition that which the subject receives from a presentation.
3614.   

3615. Such is, summarily stated, the substance of their logical teaching. And in order to give it also in detail, 
3616. Synopsis of Philosophers.
3617. ὁ εἰδικὸς λόγος.
3618. ὁ καθόλου λόγος
3619. Pyrrh. Hyp.
3620. e.g.
3621. Cf. supra
3622. Overhastiness in assertion affects the actual course of events, so that, unless we have our perceptions well trained, we are liable to fall into unseemly conduct and heedlessness; and in no other way will the wise man approve himself acute, nimblewitted, and generally skilful in argument; for it belongs to the same person to converse well and to argue well, to put questions to the purpose and to respond to the questions put; and all these qualifications are qualifications belonging to the skilled dialectician. 
3623.  

3624. Irrefutability is strength in argument so as not to be brought over by it to the opposite side. Earnestness (or absence of frivolity) is a habit of referring presentations to right reason. Knowledge itself they define either as unerring apprehension or as a habit or state which in reception of presentations cannot be shaken by argument. Without the study of dialectic, they say, the wise man cannot guard himself in argument so as never to fall; for it enables him to distinguish between truth and falsehood, and to discriminate what is merely plausible and what is ambiguously expressed, and without it he cannot methodically put questions and give answers. 
3625.   

3626. Dialectic, they said, is indispensable and is itself a virtue, embracing other particular virtues under it.
3627. inf.
3628. Mor.
3629. Cf.
3630. There are two species of presentation, the one apprehending a real object, the other not. The former, which they take to be the test of reality, is defined as that which proceeds from a real object, agrees with that object itself, and has been imprinted seal-fashion and stamped upon the mind: 
3631.   

3632. A presentation (or mental impression) is an imprint on the soul: the name having been appropriately borrowed from the imprint made by the seal upon the wax. 
3633. An argument is in itself a whole containing premisses and conclusion, and an inference (or syllogism) is an inferential argument composed of these. Demonstration is an argument inferring by means of what is better apprehended something less clearly apprehended. 
3634. The study of syllogisms they declare to be of the greatest service, as showing us what is capable of yielding demonstration; and this contributes much to the formation of correct judgements, and their arrangement and retention in memory give a scientific character to our conception of things. 
3635.   

3636. The second main head mentioned above as belonging to Dialectic is that of language, wherein are included written language and the parts of speech, with a discussion of errors in syntax and in single words, poetical diction, verbal ambiguities, euphony and music, and according to some writers chapters on terms, divisions, and style. 
3637. these including both false and true and negative arguments, sorites and the like, whether defective, insoluble, or conclusive, and the fallacies known as the Veiled, or Horned, No man, and The Mowers. 
3638.   

3639. Dialectic (they hold) falls under two heads: subjects of discourse and language. And the subjects fall under the following headings: presentations
3640. The word 
3641. given
3642. φαντασίαι
3643. impressions and ideas
3644. simple ideas,
3645. impression.
3646. perception
3647. presentation
3648. φαντασία
3649.   

3650. Rhetoric according to them may be divided into invention of arguments, their expression in words, their arrangement, and delivery; and a rhetorical speech into introduction, narrative, replies to opponents, and peroration. 
3651. Rhetoric itself, they say, has three divisions: deliberative, forensic, and panegyric. 
3652. Now the part which deals with canons or criteria they admit as a means for the discovery of truth, since in the course of it they explain the different kinds of perceptions that we have. And similarly the part about definitions is accepted as a means of recognizing truth, inasmuch as things are apprehended by means of general notions. Further, by rhetoric they understand the science of speaking well on matters set forth by plain narrative, and by dialectic that of correctly discussing subjects by question and answer; hence their alternative definition of it as the science of statements true, false, and neither true nor false. 
3653.   
	
3654. Diogenes of Ptolemaïs, it is true, begins with Ethics; but Apollodorus puts Ethics second, while Panaetius and Posidonius begin with Physics, as stated by Phanias, the pupil of Posidonius, in the first book of his 
3655. Lectures of Posidonius.
3656.   

3657. No single part, some Stoics declare, is independent of any other part, but all blend together. Nor was it usual to teach them separately. Others, however, start their course with Logic, go on to Physics, and finish with Ethics; and among those who so do are Zeno in his treatise 
3658. On Exposition
3659. Philosophy, they say, is like an animal, Logic corresponding to the bones and sinews, Ethics to the fleshy parts, Physics to the soul. Another simile they use is that of an egg: the shell is Logic, next comes the white, Ethics, and the yolk in the centre is Physics. Or, again, they liken Philosophy to a fertile field: Logic being the encircling fence, Ethics the crop, Physics the soil or the trees. Or, again, to a city strongly walled and governed by reason. 
3660.   
	
3661. These parts are called by Apollodorus 
3662. Heads of Commonplace
3663. Philosophic doctrine, say the Stoics, falls into three parts: one physical, another ethical, and the third logical. Zeno of Citium was the first to make this division in his 
3664. Elementary Treatise on Ethics
3665. Introductions to Stoic Doctrine
3666. Physics
3667. Exposition of Doctrine
3668. Exposition of Doctrine
3669.   

3670. I have decided to give a general account of all the Stoic doctrines in the life of Zeno because he was the founder of the School. I have already given a list of his numerous writings, in which he has spoken as has no other of the Stoics. And his tenets in general are as follows. In accordance with my usual practice a summary statement must suffice.
3671. Laertius adheres to his plan of arranging doctrine under two heads: (1) a general or summary, (2) a particular, treatment; 
3672. κεφαλαιωδῶς κατὰ μέρος.
3673. cf. inf.
3674. And furthermore the following according to Hippobotus were pupils of Zeno: Philonides of Thebes; Callippus of Corinth; Posidonius of Alexandria; Athenodorus of Soli; and Zeno of Sidon.
3675. Perhaps an error for Zeno of Tarsus.
3676.   

3677. Ariston, the son of Miltiades and a native of Chios, who introduced the doctrine of things morally indifferent; Herillus of Carthage, who affirmed knowledge to be the end; Dionysius, who became a renegade to the doctrine of pleasure, for owing to the severity of his ophthalmia he had no longer the nerve to call pain a thing indifferent: his native place was Heraclea; Sphaerus of Bosporus; Cleanthes, son of Phanias, of Assos, his successor in the school: him Zeno used to compare to hard waxen tablets which are difficult to write upon, but retain the characters written upon them. Sphaerus also became the pupil of Cleanthes after Zeno’s death, and we shall have occasion to mention him in the 
3678. Life of Cleanthes.
3679.   

3680. The following works are by Persaeus: 

3681. A Reply to Plato’s 
3682. Laws
3683. Memorabilia. 
3684. Four books of Anecdotes. 
3685. Interludes. 
3686. Exhortations. 
3687. Of Love. 
3688. Thyestes. 
3689. Of Impiety. 
3690. Of Marriage. 
3691. The Spartan Constitution. 
3692. Of Kingship. 
3693. Of the many disciples of Zeno the following are the most famous: Persaeus, son of Demetrius, of Citium, whom some call a pupil and others one of the household, one of those sent him by Antigonus to act as secretary; he had been tutor to Antigonus’s son Halcyoneus. And Antigonus once, wishing to make trial of him, caused some false news to be brought to him that his estate had been ravaged by the enemy, and as his countenance fell, 
3694. that wealth is not a matter of indifference?
3695. Do you see,
3696.   

3697. There have been eight persons of the name of Zeno. First the Eleatic, of whom more hereafter; the second our present subject; the third a Rhodian 
3698.   
	
3699. That the 
3700. Interludes.
3701. The Art of Love.
3702. De Republica.
3703. Republic
3704.   

3705. Again, in the 
3706. Republic
3707. Republic
3708.   
	
3709. Hence he had been well trained even before he left his native place. And thus it came about that on his arrival at Athens he attached himself to Crates. And it seems, he adds, that, when the rest were at a loss how to express their views, Zeno framed a definition of the end. They say that he was in the habit of swearing by 
3710. Republic
3711. the dog.
3712. capers
3713.   

3714. Demetrius the Magnesian, in his work on 
3715. Men of the Same Name
3716. So much then concerning his death. 
3717. We have ourselves mentioned the manner of Zeno’s death in the 
3718. The story goes that Zeno of Citium after enduring many hardships by reason of old age was set free, some say by ceasing to take food; others say that once when he had tripped he beat with his hand upon the earth and cried, 
3719. Anth. Pal.
3720. I come of my own accord; why then call me?
3721. Pammetros
3722.   

3723. Here too is another by Zenodotus the Stoic, a pupil of Diogenes
3724. O ye who’ve learnt the doctrines of the Porch  

3725. Anth. Pal.
3726. Thou madest self-sufficiency thy rule,  

3727. Anth. Pal.
3728.   

3729. The Athenians buried him in the Ceramicus and honoured him in the decrees already cited above, adding their testimony of his goodness. Here is the epitaph composed for him by Antipater of Sidon
3730. Here lies great Zeno, dear to Citium, who scaled high Olympus, though he piled not Pelion on Ossa, nor toiled at the labours of Heracles, but this was the path he found out to the stars—the way of temperance alone.
3731. Anth. Plan.
3732.   

3733. last. Persaeus, however, in his ethical lectures makes him die at the age of seventy-two, having come to Athens at the age of twenty-two. But Apollonius says that he presided over the school for fifty-eight years. The manner of his death was as follows. As he was leaving the school he tripped and fell, breaking a toe. Striking the ground with his fist, he quoted the line from the 
3734. I come, I come, why dost thou call for me? 
3735. Of Timotheus. See Nauck, 
3736. T.G.F.
3737. Niobe
3738. And in very truth in this species of virtue and in dignity he surpassed all mankind, ay, and in happiness; for he was ninety-eight when he died and had enjoyed good health without an ailment to the 
3739.   

3740. By this time he had almost become a proverb. At all events, 
3741. Men Transported
3742. More temperate than Zeno the philosopher
3743. He showed the utmost endurance, and the greatest frugality;  the food he used required no fire to dress, and the cloak he wore was thin. Hence it was said of him: 

3744. This man adopts a new philosophy.

3745. Philosophers
3746. The cold of winter and the ceaseless rain 

3747.   

3748. When he was asked why he, though so austere, relaxed at a drinking-party, he said, 
3749. Cf.
3750. Well-being is attained by little and little, and nevertheless it is no little thing itself.
3751. Better to trip with the feet than with 
3752. Anecdotes
3753. Lupins too are bitter, but when they are soaked become sweet.
3754. The reason he gave for this was that the man capable of giving a proper hearing to what is said and profiting by it was superior to him who discovers everything himself. For the one had merely a right apprehension, the other in obeying good counsel superadded conduct. 
3755.   

3756. According to Hippobotus he forgathered with Diodorus, with whom he worked hard at dialectic. And when he was already making progress, he would enter Polemo’s school: so far from all selfconceit was he. In consequence Polemo is said to have addressed him thus: 
3757. He is best of all men who follows good advice: good too is he who finds out all things for himself.
3758.  

3759. He is best of all, who finds out everything for himself; that man too is good who follows good advice.
3760. Hesiod’s lines as they stand (
3761. Works and Days
3762. The Reaper,
3763. You slip in, Zeno, by the garden door—I’m quite aware of it—you filch my doctrines and give them a Phoenician make-up.
3764.   

3765. One day at a banquet he was reclining in silence and was asked the reason: whereupon he bade his critic carry word to the king that there was one present who knew how to hold his tongue. Now those who inquired of him were ambassadors from King Ptolemy, and they wanted to know what message they should take back from him to the king. On being asked how he felt about abuse, he replied, 
3766. The right way to seize a philosopher, Crates, is by the ears: 
3767. As an envoy feels who is dismissed without an answer.
3768.   

3769. Again he would say that if we want to master the sciences there is nothing so fatal as conceit, and 
3770. The reason why we have two ears and only one mouth is that we may listen the more and talk the less.
3771. Because I mistrust you.
3772. Why am I the only pupil you do not correct?
3773. who smells of woman?
3774. Who is this,
3775. the imprints of your anger.
3776. I see,
3777. The change of 
3778. Beauty he called the flower of strength, while according to others it was the voice which he called the flower of beauty.
3779. φωνήν,
3780. ῥώμης
3781. φωνῆς
3782. ὥρα ἄνθος ἀρετῆς,
3783. Cf.
3784. σωφροσύνης σωφροσύνην
3785. φωνῆς φωνήν
3786. Yes, and to be beaten too,
3787. A second self (
3788. alter ego
3789. Who is a friend?
3790.   

3791. A Rhodian, who was handsome and rich, but nothing more, insisted on joining his class; but so unwelcome was this pupil, that first of all Zeno made him sit on the benches that were dusty, that he might soil his cloak, and then he consigned him to the place where the beggars sat, that he might rub shoulders with their rags; so at last the young man went away. Nothing, he declared, was more unbecoming than arrogance, especially in the young. He used also to say that it was not the words and expressions that we ought to remember, but we should exercise our mind in disposing to advantage of what we hear, instead of, as it were, tasting a well-cooked dish or well-dressed meal. The young, he thought, should behave with perfect propriety in walk, gait and dress, and he used continually to quote the lines of Euripides about Capaneus: 

3792. Large means had he, yet not the haughtiness

3793. Supplices
3794.   

3795. Once when a young man was talking a good deal, he said, 
3796. I would rather not tell you what I am thinking, my lad.
3797. Cf.
3798. Then who can be more hapless than you fair youths?
3799. Your ears have slid down and merged in your tongue.
3800.   

3801. Some one having said that he thought the chainarguments of the philosophers seemed brief and curt, Zeno replied, 
3802. unlike the works of good craftsmen, should need no pause for the contemplation of their excellences; on the contrary, the hearer should be so absorbed in the discourse itself as to have no leisure even to take notes.
3803. Telling periods,
3804. Well, what value would you have set upon what was given out?
3805. You are quite right; indeed, the very syllables ought, if possible, to be clipped.
3806.   

3807. There was a gourmand so greedy that he left nothing for his table companions. A large fish having been served, Zeno took it up as if he were about to eat the whole. When the other looked at him, 
3808. to pick out and mention anything wrong said by Antisthenes, while you suppress his good things without giving them a thought?
3809. Then are you not ashamed,
3810. those who live with you feel every day, if you cannot put up with my gourmandise in this single instance?
3811. What do you suppose,
3812.   

3813. To a lover of boys he remarked, 
3814. must have been drunk when he begat you.
3815. Your father,
3816. Just as schoolmasters lose their common-sense by spending all their time with boys, so it is with people like you.
3817.   

3818. When he was slowly picking his way across a watercourse, 
3819. How do you think your neighbour liked what you did to him?
3820. that the best cure for inflammation is repose.
3821. Good physicians tell us,
3822. he looks askance at the mud, for he can’t see his face in it.
3823. With good reason,
3824.   

3825. Zeno himself was sour and of a frowning countenance. He was very niggardly too, clinging to meanness unworthy of a Greek, on the plea of economy, If he pitched into anyone he would do it concisely, and not effusively, keeping him rather at arm’s length. I mean, for example, his remark upon the fop showing himself off. 
3826. He used to dispute very carefully with Philo the logician and study along with him. Hence Zeno, who was the junior, had as great an admiration for Philo as his master Diodorus. And he had about him certain ragged dirty fellows, as Timon says
3827. The while he got together a crowd of ignorant serfs, who surpassed all men in beggary and were the emptiest of townsfolk.
3828. Il.
3829. Cf.
3830. Frag. 39 D.
3831.   

3832. His bent was towards inquiry, and he was an exact reasoner on all subjects. Hence the words of Timon in his 
3833. A Phoenician too I saw, a pampered old woman ensconced in gloomy pride, longing for all things; but the meshes of her subtle web have perished, and she had no more intelligence than a banjo.
3834. Od.
3835. Cf.
3836. Frag. 38 D.
3837. Silli
3838. After Zeno’s death Antigonus is reported to have said, 
3839. the many ample gifts I offered him never made him conceited nor yet appear poor-spirited.
3840. Because,
3841. Tarn, 
3842. satis enim magnum alter alteri theatrum sumus.
3843. Ep.
3844. ap.
3845. Politicus
3846. Antig. Gon.
3847. What an audience I have lost.
3848.   

3849. When Demochares, the son of Laches, greeted him and told him he had only to speak or write for anything he wanted to Antigonus, who would be sure to grant all his requests, Zeno after hearing this would have nothing more to do with him.
3850. Zeno must have foreseen that this compliment would be followed by a request to use his undoubted influence with the king on behalf of Demochares. who, as an Athenian patriot and the nephew of Demosthenes, was out of favour at the Macedonian court. Indeed the fact of his making such advances at all is so strange that Ferguson (p. 172) and Tarn (p. 94, note 11) feel constrained to offer hypothetical explanations.
3851. He disliked, they say, to be brought too near to people, so that he would take the end seat of a couch, thus saving himself at any rate from one half of such inconvenience. Nor indeed would he walk about with more than two or three. He would occasionally ask the bystanders for coppers, in order that, for fear of being asked to give, people might desist from mobbing him, as Cleanthes says in his work 
3852. This was once open to all, but because it was found to be a hindrance it was railed off. If you then will take yourselves off out of the way you will be the less annoyance to us.
3853. On Bronze.
3854.   

3855. It is said that he had more than a thousand talents when he came to Greece, and that he lent this money on bottomry.
3856. The security for the loan was either the cargo shipped or the vessel itself. As the risk was great, the interest was proportionately high. Demosth. 
3857. Or.
3858.   

3859. Antigonus of Carystus tells us that he never denied that he was a citizen of Citium. For when he was one of those who contributed to the restoration of the baths and his name was inscribed upon the pillar as 
3860. of Citium
3861. Zeno the philosopher,
3862. These are the terms of the decree. 
3863. Thraso of the deme Anacaea, Philocles of Peiraeus, Phaedrus of Anaphlystus, Medon of Acharnae, Micythus of Sypalettus, and Dion of Paeania have been elected commissioners for the making of the crown and the building.
3864.   

3865. it has seemed good to the people— and may it turn out well—to bestow praise upon Zeno of Citium, the son of Mnaseas, and to crown him with a golden crown according to the law, for his goodness and temperance, and to build him a tomb in the Ceramicus at the public cost. And that for the making of the crown and the building of the tomb, the people shall now elect five commissioners 
3866.   

3867. Whereas Zeno of Citium, son of Mnaseas, has for many years been devoted to philosophy in the city and has continued to be a man of worth in all other respects, exhorting to virtue and temperance those of the youth who come to him to be taught, directing them to what is best, affording to all in his own conduct a pattern for imitation in perfect consistency with his teaching,  
3868. In the archonship of Arrhenides, in the fifth prytany of the tribe Acamantis on the twenty-first day of Maemacterion, at the twenty-third plenary assembly of the prytany, one of the presidents, Hippo, the son of Cratistoteles, of the deme Xypetaeon, and his co-presidents put the question to the vote; Thraso, the son of Thraso of the deme Anacaea, moved:
3869. It reads as follows
3870. Antig. Gon.
3871. Cf.
3872.   

3873. So he sent Persaeus and Philonides the Theban; and Epicurus in his letter to his brother Aristobulus mentions them both as living with Antigonus. I have thought it well to append the decree also which the Athenians passed concerning him.
3874. But I am constrained by bodily weakness, due to old age, for I am eighty years old; and for that reason I am unable to join you. But I send you certain companions of my studies whose mental powers are not inferior to mine, while their 
3875.   

3876. I welcome your love of learning in so far as you cleave to that true education which tends to advantage and not to that popular counterfeit of it which serves only to corrupt morals. But if anyone has yearned for philosophy, turning away from much-vaunted pleasure which renders effeminate the souls of some of the young, it is evident that not by nature only, but also by the bent of his will he is inclined to nobility of character. But if a noble nature be aided by moderate exercise and further receive ungrudging instruction, it easily comes to acquire virtue in perfection. 
3877. Zeno to King Antigonus, greeting.
3878.   

3879. And Zeno’s reply is as follows: 
3880. While in fortune and fame I deem myself your superior, in reason and education I own myself inferior, as well as in the perfect happiness which you have attained. Wherefore I have decided to ask you to pay me a visit, being persuaded that you will not refuse the request. By all means, then, do your best to hold conference with me, understanding clearly that you will not be the instructor of myself alone but of all the Macedonians taken together. For it is obvious that whoever instructs the ruler of Macedonia and guides him in the paths of virtue will also be training his subjects to be good men. As is the ruler, such for the most part it may be expected that his subjects will become.
3881. King Antigonus to Zeno the philosopher, greeting.
3882.   

3883. The people of Athens held Zeno in high honour, as is proved by their depositing with him the keys of the city walls, and their honouring him with a golden crown and a bronze statue. This last mark of respect was also shown to him by citizens of his native town, who deemed his statue an ornament to their city,
3884. Pliny, 
3885. N.H.
3886.   

3887. He used then to discourse, pacing up and down in the painted colonnade, which is also called the colonnade or Portico
3888. On the Old Comedy
3889. Probably the Thirty met in the Stoa and passed sentence of death there. It is not likely that this was the place of execution.
3890. Our word 
3891. the Porch.
3892. porticus
3893. colonnade
3894. A different version of the story is that he was staying at Athens when he heard his ship was wrecked and said, 
3895. It is well done of thee, Fortune, thus to drive me to philosophy.
3896.   
	
3897. This is a list of his writings. But at last he left Crates, and the men above mentioned were his masters for twenty years. Hence he is reported to have said, 
3898. I made a prosperous voyage when I suffered shipwreck.
3899. There are also by him: 

3900. Ethics. 
3901. Recollections of Crates. 
3902. Two books of Refutations. 
3903. Solutions. 
3904. A Handbook of Rhetoric. 
3905. For a certain space, then, he was instructed by Crates, and when at this time he had written his 
3906. Of the Reading of Poetry. 
3907. Homeric Problems, in five books. 
3908. Of Varieties of Style. 
3909. Universals. 
3910. Pythagorean Questions. 
3911. Of Signs. 
3912. Of the Whole World. 
3913. Of Vision. 
3914. Of Greek Education. 
3915. Of Law. 
3916. Of Duty. 
3917. Of Emotions. 
3918. Of Impulse, or Human Nature. 
3919. Of Life according to Nature. 
3920. Republic
3921. Cynosura, Dog’s Tail, like Dog’s Head, Cynoscephalus, was the name of several promontories, notably one in Athens and one in Salamis. Relatively to Cynicism, 
3922. holding on by the dog’s tail
3923. i.e.
3924. Republic
3925.   

3926. Crates passed by in the nick of time, so the bookseller pointed to him and said, 
3927. nothing terrible has befallen you.
3928. Why run away, my little Phoenician?
3929. Follow yonder man.
3930.   
	
3931. He was a pupil of Crates, as stated above. Next they say he attended the lectures of Stilpo and Xenocrates for ten years—so Timocrates says in his 
3932. Memorabilia
3933. Dion
3934.  
	
3935. Zeno, the son of Mnaseas (or Demeas), was a native of Citium in Cyprus, a Greek city which had received Phoenician settlers. He had a wry neck, says Timotheus of Athens in his book 
3936. Convivial Reminiscences
3937. Proverbs.
3938. On Lives.
3939. Chapter 1. ZENO (333-261 B.C.)
3940. BOOK VII
3941. 

3942. 

3943.   
	
3944. So much, then, for the Cynics. We must now pass on to the Stoics, whose founder was Zeno, a disciple of Crates. 
3945. They hold, further, that virtue can be taught, as Antisthenes maintains in his 
3946. Heracles
3947.   

3948. They also hold that we should live frugally, eating food for nourishment only and wearing a single garment. Wealth and fame and high birth they despise. Some at all events are vegetarians and drink cold water only and are content with any kind of shelter or tubs, like Diogenes, who used to say that it was the privilege of the gods to need nothing and of god-like men to want but little. 
3949. They hold further that 
3950. Heracles
3951. Life according to Virtue
3952. So they get rid of geometry and music and all such studies. Anyhow, when somebody showed Diogenes a clock, he pronounced it a serviceable instrument to save one from being late for dinner. Again, to a man who gave a musical recital before him he said
3953. By men’s minds states are ordered well, and households,  

3954. Antiope
3955. Cf.
3956.   

3957. Such are the lives of the several Cynics. But we will go on to append the doctrines which they held in common—if, that is, we decide that Cynicism is really a philosophy, and not, as some maintain, just a way of life. They are content then, like Ariston of Chios, to do away with the subjects of Logic and Physics and to devote their whole attention to Ethics. And what some assert of Socrates, Diocles records of Diogenes, representing him as saying: 
3958. Hom. 
3959. Od.
3960. Whate’er of good or ill within our halls is wrought.
3961. We must inquire into
3962.  

3963. Menedemus was a pupil of Colotes of Lampsacus. According to Hippobotus he had attained such a 
3964. Chapter 9. MENEDEMUS
3965. 

3966.   

3967. Besides other works. 
3968. However, the writings of Menippus the Cynic are thirteen in number: 

3969. The School’s reverence for the twentieth day.
3970. A book about the birth of Epicurus; and 
3971. Replies to the physicists and mathematicians and grammarians; and 
3972. Epistles artificially composed as if by the gods. 
3973. Wills. 
3974. Necromancy. 
3975. There have been six men named Menippus: the first the man who wrote a History of the Lydians and abridged Xanthus; the second my present subject; the third a sophist of Stratonicea, a Carian by descent
3976.  
3977. post a me tota Asia peragrata est, [fuique]cum summis quidem oratoribus, quibus-cum exercebar ipsis lubentibus; quorum erat princeps Menippus Stratonicensis meo iudicio tota Asia illis temporibus disertissimus,
3978. Brut.
3979. Cf.
3980.   

3981. Some authorities question the genuineness of the books attributed to him, alleging them to be by Dionysius and Zopyrus of Colophon, who, writing them for a joke, made them over to Menippus as a person able to dispose of them advantageously. 
3982. At last, however, he fell a victim to a plot, was robbed of all, and in despair ended his days by hanging himself. I have composed a trifle upon him
3983. Anth. Plan.
3984.  

3985. Hermippus says that he lent out money by the day and got a nickname from doing so. For he used to make loans on bottomry and take security, thus accumulating a large fortune. 
3986. There is no seriousness
3987. For a fragment from his 
3988. Banquet
3989. Strabo, however (xvi. p. 759), speaks of him as 
3990. σπουδογέλοιος.
3991. Menippus,
3992. Ethics
3993. Saturae Menippeae
3994. Bis Accusatus
3995. Icaromenippus
3996. Cf.
3997. apud
3998. Menippus ille, nobilis quidem canis,
3999. Chapter 8. MENIPPUS
4000. 

4001.   

4002. He died in old age, and was buried in Boeotia. 
4003. There is current a work of Crates entitled 
4004. Not one tower hath my country nor one roof,

4005. Nauck, 
4006. T.G.F.
4007. 2
4008. Epistles
4009. And when he said to her: 

4010. It is I, Theodorus,—but do you suppose that I have been ill advised about myself, if instead of wasting further time upon the loom I spent it in education?
4011. Is this she 
4012. Eur. 
4013. Bacch.
4014.   

4015. The girl chose and, adopting the same dress, went about with her husband and lived with him in public and went out to dinners with him. Accordingly she appeared at the banquet given by Lysimachus, and there put down Theodorus, known as the atheist, by means of the following sophism. Any action which would not be called wrong if done by Theodorus, would not be called wrong if done by Hipparchia. Now Theodorus does no wrong when he strikes himself: therefore neither does Hipparchia do wrong when she strikes Theodorus. He had no reply wherewith to meet the argument, but tried to strip her of her cloak. But Hipparchia showed no sign of alarm or of the perturbation natural in a woman. 
4016.  

4017. She fell in love with the discourses and the life of Crates, and would not pay attention to any of her 
4018. This is the bridegroom, here are his possessions; make your choice accordingly; for you will be no helpmeet of mine, unless you share my pursuits.
4019. Hipparchia too, sister of Metrocles, was captured by their doctrines. Both of them were born at Maroneia. 
4020. Chapter 7. HIPPARCHIA (c. 300 B.C .)
4021. 

4022.  
	
4023. His disciples were Theombrotus and Cleomenes: Theombrotus had for his pupil Demetrius of Alexandria, while Cleomenes instructed Timarchus of Alexandria and Echecles of Ephesus. Not but what Echecles also heard Theombrotus, whose lectures were attended by Menedemus, of whom we shall speak presently. Menippus of Sinope also became renowned amongst them. 
4024. He died of old age, having choked himself. 
4025. Hecato in the first book of his 
4026. Come hither, Hephaestus, Thetis now needeth thee.
4027. Phantoms are these of dreams o’ the world below.
4028. Nauck, 
4029. Adesp.
4030. 2
4031. T.G.F.
4032. Anecdotes
4033.  

4034. Metrocles of Maroneia was the brother of Hipparchia. He had been formerly a pupil of Theophrastus the Peripatetic, and had been so far corrupted by weakness that, when he made a breach of good manners in the course of rehearsing a speech, it drove him to despair, and he shut himself up at home, intending to starve himself to death. On learning this Crates came to visit him as he had been asked to do, and after advisedly making a meal of lupins, he tried to persuade him by argument as well that he had committed no crime, for a prodigy would have happened if he had not taken the natural means of relieving 
4035. Chapter 6. METROCLES (c. 300 B.C.)
4036. 

4037.   

4038. We come now to his pupils. 
4039. When Alexander inquired whether he would like his native city to be rebuilt, his answer was, 
4040. Wearing a cloak you’ll go about with me,  

4041. Twin Sisters
4042. Why should it be? Perhaps another Alexander will destroy it again.
4043.   

4044. You are going, dear hunchback, you are off to the house of Hades,—bent crooked by old age.
4045. You will see these men, who are laughing at you, tortured before long by disease, counting you happy, and reproaching themselves for their sluggishness.
4046.   

4047. Zeno of Citium in his 
4048. Take heart, Crates, for it is for the good of your eyes and of the rest of your body. 
4049. Anecdotes
4050. Diocles, however, says that it was by Menedemus of Eretria that he was thus dragged. For he being handsome and being thought to be intimate with Asclepiades the Phliasian, Crates slapped him on the side with a brutal taunt; whereupon Menedemus, full of indignation, dragged him along, and he declaimed as above. 
4051.   

4052. When Demetrius of Phalerum sent him loaves of bread and some wine, he reproached him, saying, 
4053. Seized by the foot and dragged o’er heaven’s high threshold:
4054. Hom. 
4055. Il.
4056. I’ll show you that Theophrastus also wears muslin.
4057. Oh that the springs yielded bread as well as water!
4058. He carried on a regular campaign of invective against the courtesans, habituating himself to meet their abuse. 
4059.   

4060. Favorinus, in the second book of his 
4061. Nicodromus’s handiwork.
4062. What, are not these hip-joints yours as much as your knees?
4063. Memorabilia
4064. This man had a brother named Pasicles, who was a disciple of Euclides. 
4065. The marriage of intrigue and adultery, he said, belonged to tragedy, having exile or assassination as its rewards; while the weddings of those who take up with courtesans are material for comedy, for as a result of extravagance and drunkenness they bring about madness. 
4066.   

4067. In the home of Crates Alexander is said to have lodged, as Philip once lived in Hipparchia’s. Often, too, certain of his kinsmen would come to visit him and try to divert him from his purpose. These he would drive from him with his stick, and his resolution was unshaken. Demetrius of Magnesia tells a story that he entrusted a banker with a sum of money on condition that, if his sons proved ordinary men he was to pay it to them, but, if they became 
4068.   

4069. According to Antisthenes in his 
4070. In summer-time a thick cloak he would wear 

4071. Successions
4072. He flourished in the 113th Olympiad.
4073. 328-324 B.C.
4074.  

4075. He was known as the 
4076. Hunger stops love, or, if not hunger, Time, 

4077. Anth. Pal.
4078. A quart of lupins and to care for no one. 
4079. That much I have which I have learnt and thought, 

4080. Anth. Pal.
4081. Door-opener
4082. There is also his widely circulated day-book, which runs as follows: 

4083.  

4084. Crates, son of Ascondas, was a Theban. He too was amongst the Cynic’s famous pupils. Hippobotus, however, alleges that he was a pupil not of Diogenes, but of Bryson
4085. There is a city Pera in the midst of wine-dark vapour, 

4086. Anth. Plan.
4087. Not the same as Bryson of Heracleia, whom we know from the Platonic Epistles, from Aristotle, and from Athenaeus (xi. p. 508). He may, however, have been the disciple of Pythagoras mentioned by Iamblichus (
4088. c
4089. Vita Pyth.
4090. Chapter 5. CRATES (of Thebes, flor. 326 B.C.)
4091. 

4092.  

4093. Amongst other pupils of Diogenes were Menander, who was nicknamed Drymus or 
4094. Dog-collar
4095. Oakwood,
4096. Onesicritus some report to have been an Aeginetan, but Demetrius of Magnesia says that he was a native of Astypalaea. He too was one of the distinguished pupils of Diogenes. His career seems to have resembled that of Xenophon; for Xenophon joined the expedition of Cyrus, Onesicritus that of Alexander; and the former wrote the 
4097. Cyropaedia, or Education of Cyrus
4098. Chapter 4. ONESICRITUS (flor. 330 B.C.)
4099. 

4100.  

4101. He has left us, besides some trifles blended with covert earnestness, two books, 
4102. Exhortation to Philosophy.
4103. On Impulses
4104. He came to be a distinguished man; so much so that he is even mentioned by the comic poet Menander. At any rate in one of his plays, 
4105. One Monimus there was, a wise man, Philo, 
	
4106. B.
4107. A.
4108. The Groom
4109.  

4110. Monimus of Syracuse was a pupil of Diogenes; and, according to Sosicrates, he was in the service of a certain Corinthian banker, to whom Xeniades, the purchaser of Diogenes, made frequent visits, and by the account which he gave of his goodness in word and deed, excited in Monimus a passionate admiration of Diogenes. For he forthwith pretended to be mad and proceeded to fling away the small change and all the money on the banker’s table, until at length his master dismissed him; and he then straightway devoted himself to Diogenes. He often followed Crates the Cynic as well, and embraced the like pursuits; whereupon his master, seeing him do this, was all the more persuaded that he was mad. 
4111. Chapter 3. MONIMUS (fourth century B.C.)
4112. 

4113.   

4114. Now the philosopher is said by Athenodorus in the eighth book of his 
4115. ὡς Διογένης ἐποίει· στίλβων γὰρ περιήρχετο καὶ αὐτὸ τὸ σῶμα ἐπέστρε φε τοὺς πολλούς.
4116. Cf.
4117. Walks
4118. There have been five men who were named Diogenes. The first, of Apollonia, a natural philosopher. 
4119. Account of Peloponnesus.
4120. At the outset of every discourse, methinks, one should see to it that the basis laid down is unquestionable.
4121.   

4122. Sosicrates in the first book of his 
4123. Lives
4124. Successions
4125. Seven Tragedies: 

4126. Oedipus. 
4127. Chrysippus. 
4128. Medea. 
4129. Achilles. 
4130. Heracles. 
4131. Thyestes. 
4132. Helen. 
4133. The following writings are attributed to him. Dialogues: 
4134. Letters. 
4135. On Death. 
4136. Aristarchus. 
4137. Hypsias. 
4138. Theodorus. 
4139. On Love. 
4140. On Wealth. 
4141. Art of Ethics. 
4142. Republic. 
4143. The Athenian Demos. 
4144. Pordalus. 
4145. Jackdaw. 
4146. Ichthyas. 
4147. Cephalion. 
4148.   

4149. Demetrius in his work 
4150. 324-321 b.c.
4151. On Men of the Same Name
4152. But some say that when dying he left instructions that they should throw him out unburied, that every wild beast might feed on him, or thrust him into a ditch and sprinkle a little dust over him. But according to others his instructions were that they should throw him into the Ilissus, in order that he might be useful to his brethren. 
4153. We too have written on him in the proceleusmatic metre: 

4154. Anth. Pal.
4155. D.
4156. A.
4157.   

4158. Hence, it is said, arose a quarrel among his disciples as to who should bury him: nay, they even came to blows; but, when their fathers and men of influence arrived, under their direction he was buried beside the gate leading to the Isthmus. Over his grave they set up a pillar and a dog in Parian marble upon it. Subsequently his fellow-citizens honoured him with bronze statues, on which these verses were inscribed: 

4159. Time makes even bronze grow old: but thy glory, Diogenes, all eternity will never destroy. Since thou alone didst point out to mortals the lesson of self-sufficingness and the easiest path of life.
4160. Anth. Pal.
4161.   

4162. Another version is that, while trying to divide an octopus amongst the dogs, he was so severely bitten on the sinew of the foot that it caused his death. His friends, however, according to Antisthenes in his 
4163. Successions of Philosophers
4164. But he soared aloft with his lip tightly pressed against his teeth 

4165.   

4166. Diogenes is said to have been nearly ninety years old when he died. Regarding his death there are several different accounts. One is that he was seized with colic after eating an octopus raw and so met his end. Another is that he died voluntarily by holding his breath. This account was followed by Cercidas of Megalopolis (or of Crete), who in his meliambics writes thus: 

4167. Not so he who aforetime was a citizen of Sinope, 

4168. When, thirdly, the father himself arrived, he was just as much attracted to the 
4169.   

4170. Cleomenes in his work entitled 
4171. Concerning Pedagogues
4172.   

4173. Further, when he was sold as a slave, he endured it most nobly. For on a voyage to Aegina he was captured by pirates under the command of Scirpalus,
4174. A good genius has entered my house.
4175. Sell me to this man; he needs a master.
4176. In ruling men.
4177. N.D.
4178. Harpalus
4179. He became very ready also at repartee in verbal debates, as is evident from what has been said above. 
4180.   
	
4181. And he saw no impropriety either in stealing anything from a temple or in eating the flesh of any animal; nor even anything impious in touching human flesh, this, he said, being clear from the custom of some foreign nations. Moreover, according to right reason, as he put it, all elements are contained in all things and pervade everything: since not only is meat a constituent of bread, but bread of vegetables; and all other bodies also, by means of certain invisible passages and particles, find their way in and unite with all substances in the form of vapour. This he makes plain in the 
4182. Miscellaneous History
4183. It has been conjectured that the Pasiphon meant was the philosopher of Eretria, to whom Persaeus attributed the composition of spurious Socratic Dialogues (
4184. Λουκιανοῦ
4185. Kl. Schr.
4186. Griechische Literatur in der Alexandrinerzeit
4187. Πίναξ
4188. v. supra
4189. Thyestes
4190.   

4191. He maintained that all things are the property of the wise, and employed such arguments as those cited above. All things belong to the gods. The gods are friends to the wise, and friends share all property in common; therefore all things are the property of the wise. Again as to law: that it is 
4192.   

4193. Nothing in life, however, he maintained, has any chance of succeeding without strenuous practice; and this is capable of overcoming anything. Accordingly, instead of useless toils men should choose such as nature recommends, whereby they might have lived happily. Yet such is their madness that they choose to be miserable. For even the despising of pleasure is itself most pleasurable, when we are habituated to it; and just as those accustomed to a life of pleasure feel disgust when they pass over to the opposite experience, so those whose training has been of the opposite kind derive more pleasure from despising pleasure than from the pleasures themselves. This was the gist of his conversation; and it was plain that he acted accordingly, adulterating currency in very truth, allowing convention no such authority as he allowed to natural right, and asserting that the manner of life he lived was the same as that of Heracles when he preferred liberty to everything. 
4194.   

4195. He used to affirm that training was of two kinds, mental and bodily: the latter being that whereby, with constant exercise, perceptions are formed such as secure freedom of movement for virtuous deeds; and the one half of this training is incomplete without the other, good health and strength being just as much included among the essential things, whether for body or soul. And he would adduce indisputable evidence to show how easily from 
4196.   

4197. Being asked what was the most beautiful thing in the world, he replied, 
4198. §§ 70-73. As § 74 joins on well to § 69, the intermediate specimens of Cynic maxims(
4199. cf.
4200. it were as easy to banish hunger by rubbing the belly.
4201. If to breakfast be not absurd, neither is it absurd in the market-place; but to breakfast is not absurd, therefore it is not absurd to breakfast in the marketplace.
4202. schoolmaster, you have plenty of pupils.
4203. By the help of the gods,
4204. Freedom of speech.
4205.   

4206. Being asked whether death was an evil thing, he replied, 
4207. What is to be done then, if you have to treat friends and enemies alike?
4208. lest the oculist instead of curing the eye should ruin the pupil.
4209. Beware,
4210. is afraid of the good?
4211. Who then,
4212. A good thing,
4213. a good thing or a bad?
4214. Why, what are you?
4215. Are you not afraid of me?
4216. How can it be evil, when in its presence we are not aware of it?
4217. Seeing a bad archer, he sat down beside the target with the words 
4218. in order not to get hit.
4219.   

4220. The question being asked why footmen are so called, he replied, 
4221. Od.
4222. He holds his head down close, that none may hear.
4223. he does, but when he does so— 
4224. Oh yes,
4225. I expect to receive from others again, but whether I shall ever get anything from you again lies on the knees of the gods.
4226. Because,
4227. Because they have the feet of men, but souls such as you, my questioner, have.
4228.   

4229. When some one first shook a beam at him and then shouted 
4230. Beware lest the sweet scent on your head cause an ill odour in your life.
4231. Why, hapless man, are you at such pains to gain your suit, when it would be better for you to lose it?
4232. Look out.
4233. Look out,
4234. Being reproached with drinking in a tavern, 
4235. The gods’ choice gifts are nowise to be spurned.
4236. Il.
4237. I also get my hair cut in a barber’s shop.
4238. Well,
4239.   

4240. Seeing a young man behaving effeminately, 
4241. to draw a dagger of lead from an ivory scabbard?
4242. Are you not ashamed,
4243. to despise him to whom you owe it that you can so pride yourself?
4244. Are you not ashamed,
4245. Why then do you live, if you do not care to live well?
4246. to give this wood concordant sounds, while you fail to harmonize your soul with life?
4247. Are you not ashamed,
4248. that your own intention about yourself should be worse than nature’s: for nature made you a man, but you are forcing yourself to play the woman.
4249. Are you not ashamed,
4250.   

4251. When he was dining in a temple, and in the course of the meal loaves not free from dirt were put on the table, he took them up and threw them away, declaring that nothing unclean ought to enter a temple. To the man who said to him, 
4252. is what I practise doing all my life.
4253. This,
4254. has he of me?
4255. What need then,
4256. Even if I am but a pretender to wisdom, 
4257. You don’t know anything, although you are a philosopher,
4258.   

4259. The mistresses of kings he designated queens; for, said he, they make the kings do their bidding. When the Athenians gave Alexander the title of Dionysus, he said, 
4260. a three-headed Cerberus.
4261. Sarapis
4262. Me too you might make Sarapis.
4263. On being asked what he had gained from philosophy, he replied, 
4264. Despoil the rest; off Hector keep thy hands.
4265. There is no such line in our mss. of Homer; it is unknown to the Scholiasts and to Eustathius. Joshua Barnes, in his edition of the 
4266. Iliad
4267. Rage uncontrolled through all the hostile crew, 
4268. Il.
4269. Iliad
4270. do you not sacrifice to ensure what manner of man he shall turn out to be?
4271. But,
4272. If this answer is authentic, it apparently shows that the famous term 
4273. cosmopolitan
4274. I am a citizen of the world.
4275. This at least, if nothing else—to be prepared for every fortune.
4276.   

4277. A boy having shown him a dagger that he had received from an admirer, Diogenes remarked, 
4278. and therefore you sleep with it under your pillow.
4279. True,
4280. I possess it; while, if it was a loan, I am using it.
4281. If it was  
4282. You have no praise for me who was worthy to receive it.
4283. A pretty blade with an ugly handle.
4284. After seeing a stupid wrestler practising as a doctor he inquired of him, 
4285. Take care you don’t hit your father.
4286. What does this mean? Is it that you may now have your revenge on the rivals who formerly beat you?
4287.   

4288. He was gathering figs, and was told by the keeper that not long before a man had hanged himself on that very fig-tree. 
4289. Don’t be afraid, a hound is not fond of beetroot.
4290. when you stand round and watch me at my breakfast.
4291. It is you who are dogs,
4292. dog.
4293. yonder ram frenzied for battle, how he is held fast by the neck fascinated by a common minx.
4294. See,
4295. I will now purge it.
4296. Then,
4297.   

4298. He was returning from Olympia, and when somebody inquired whether there was a great crowd, 
4299. I fawn on those who give me anything, I yelp at those who refuse, and I set my teeth in rascals.
4300. Literally 
4301. cf.
4302. Diogenes the Hound
4303. am Diogenes the Cynic.
4304. And I,
4305. I am Alexander the great king.
4306. From the licentiousness of Greece.
4307. a great crowd, but few who could be called men.
4308. Yes,
4309.   

4310. When some one expressed astonishment at the votive offerings in Samothrace, his comment was, 
4311. From the men’s apartments to the women’s.
4312. Whither and whence?
4313. I would have persuaded you to hang yourself.
4314. If I could have persuaded you,
4315. Yes, if you can persuade me.
4316. As Chiron was the wisest and best, so Eurytion was the most intemperate, of the Centaurs: 
4317. Eurytion, ebriosus ille Centaurus
4318. Not Worse-man (Chiron), but Lax-man (Eurytion).
4319. I went and am none the worse for it,
4320. You will come back a worse man.
4321. There would have been far more, if those who were not saved had set up offerings.
4322.   

4323. Being reproached for eating in the market-place, 
4324. Well done, Philosophy, that thou divertest admirers of bodily charms to the real beauty of the soul.
4325. And so very likely do the asses at them; but as they don’t care for the asses, so neither do I care for them.
4326. Most people laugh at you,
4327. If you had washed lettuces, 
4328. Had you paid court to Dionysius, you wouldn’t now be washing lettuces,
4329. that I felt hungry.
4330. Well, it was in the market-place,
4331.   

4332. On coming to Myndus and finding the gates large, though the city itself was very small, he cried, 
4333. An obol’s worth of salt fish has broken up Anaximenes’ lecture-class.
4334. Let us beggars have something of your paunch; it will be a relief to you, and we shall get advantage.
4335. I would rather live on a few grains of salt at Athens than enjoy sumptuous fare at Craterus’s table.
4336. No,
4337. Fast gripped by purple death and forceful fate.
4338. Il.
4339. Men of Myndus, bar your gates, lest the city should run away.
4340.   

4341. said, 
4342. That was the time when I was such as you are now; but such as I am now, you will never be.
4343. My friend, it’s for food that I’m asking, not for funeral expenses.
4344. Being asked if the wise eat cakes, 
4345. Because they think they may one day be lame or blind, but never expect that they will turn to philosophy.
4346. cakes of all kinds, just like other men.
4347. Yes,
4348.   

4349. When some one declared that life is an evil, he corrected him: 
4350. When hungry, a Maltese; when full, a Molossian —two breeds which most people praise, though for fear of fatigue they do not venture out hunting with them. So neither can you live with me, because you are afraid of the discomforts.
4351. He lashed an olive.
4352. Hom. 
4353. he lashed the steeds to make them run.
4354. ἐλάαν
4355. Il.
4356. Stranger, betake thee from the princes’ path.
4357. Eur. 
4358. Phoen.
4359. It would be absurd, if Manes can live without Diogenes, but Diogenes cannot get on without Manes.
4360. Not life itself, but living ill.
4361.   

4362. On being asked by somebody, 
4363. But I am not laughed down.
4364. That for which other people pay.
4365. that is the hue 
4366. Courage,
4367. If it’s for men, you’re a fool; if for women, a knave.
4368. A helmet.
4369. For a young man not yet: for an old man never at all.
4370. εἰώθει δέ, φασίν, ὁ Πλάτων περὶ Διογένους λέγειν ὅτι μαινόμενος οὗτος Σωκράτης ἐστίν.
4371. Var. Hist.
4372. i.e.
4373. A Socrates gone mad,
4374. What sort of a man do you consider Diogenes to be?
4375.   

4376. Noticing a good-looking youth lying in an exposed position, he nudged him and cried, 
4377. for you have the eyes to see the visible table and cup; but not the understanding by which ideal tablehood and cuphood are discerned.
4378. That’s readily accounted for,
4379. Table and cup I see; but your tablehood and cuphood, Plato, I can nowise see.
4380. cuphood,
4381. tablehood
4382. Short-liv’d thou’lt be, my son, by what thou—buy’st.
4383. Il.
4384. Cf.
4385. Up, man, up, lest some foe thrust a dart into thy back!
4386.   

4387. One day seeing a runaway slave sitting on the brink of a well, he said, 
4388. Whoever wants the house,
4389. If you should die, then, who will carry you out to burial?
4390. No.
4391. What mak’st thou here, my gallant?  

4392. Hom. 
4393. Il.
4394. Would that every tree bore similar fruit.
4395. Is it for a little unguent (
4396. ἄλλʼ ἱμάτιον
4397. ἀλειμμάτιον
4398. Take care, my lad, you don’t fall in.
4399.   

4400. Good men he called images of the gods, and love the business of the idle. To the question what is wretched in life he replied, 
4401. Because it has so many thieves plotting against it.
4402. His name alone is sufficient to hang him.
4403. i.e.
4404. Which of these is Chiron?
4405. Of those that are wild a sycophant’s; of those that are tame a flatterer’s.
4406. An old man destitute.
4407.   

4408. On being asked by a tyrant what bronze is best for a statue, he replied, 
4409. If you had breakfasted in this fashion, you would not so be dining.
4410. The love of money is the root of all evil.
4411. Cf. inf.
4412. After war, alliance.
4413. The son of Zeus, victorious Heracles, 

4414. so long as they are full, he hangs them up, and, when they are empty, he throws them away.
4415. Like purses,
4416. That of which Harmodius and Aristogiton were moulded.
4417.   

4418. When some one reproached him with his exile, his reply was, 
4419. If you have already given to anyone else, give to me also; if not, begin with me.
4420. To get practice in being refused.
4421. Because they are built up of pork and beef.
4422. Too quickly, my good friend, have you left Olympia for Nemea.
4423. Shepherd’s Bush.
4424. to home-staying.
4425. And I them,
4426. Nay, it was through that, you miserable fellow, that I came to be a philosopher.
4427.   

4428. The musician who was always deserted by his audience he greeted with a 
4429. You are a simpleton, Hegesias; you do not choose painted figs, but real ones; and yet you pass over the true training and would apply yourself to written rules.
4430. by a sneeze from the left will make you tremble.
4431. And I,
4432. With one blow I will break your head.
4433. Because your song makes every one get up.
4434. Hail chanticleer,
4435.   

4436. Rhetoricians and all who talked for reputation he used to call 
4437. Because being so big, he yet sings to his lute and does not turn brigand.
4438. When people have bathed here, where are they to go to get clean?
4439. Cease to hang out a sign of invitation.
4440. I knew well that after such surfeiting you would throw up the owner.
4441. To be sold,
4442. the sheep with the golden fleece.
4443. thrice wretched.
4444. thrice human,
4445.   

4446. Being short of money, he told his friends that he applied to them not for alms, but for repayment of his due. When behaving indecently in the marketplace, he wished it were as easy to relieve hunger by rubbing an empty stomach. Seeing a youth starting off to dine with satraps, he dragged him off, took him to his friends and bade them keep 
4447. You would not see so many bones if I were the dog,
4448. The better you play, the worse it is for you.
4449.   

4450. Once he saw the officials of a temple leading away some one who had stolen a bowl belonging to the treasurers, and said, 
4451. but rather ill fortune; for he breakfasts and dines when Alexander thinks fit.
4452. Not so,
4453. Leave off dishonouring the habiliments of courage.
4454. Never fear, boys, a dog does not eat beetroot.
4455. Take care he doesn’t bite us,
4456. some day you’ll come to the gallows.
4457. i.e.
4458. you will hit your mark.
4459. Well done,
4460. The great thieves are leading away the little thief.
4461.   

4462. Perdiccas having threatened to put him to death unless he came to him, 
4463. You have not attained to full felicity, unless he wipes your nose as well; and that will come, when you have lost the use of your hands.
4464. for a beetle or a tarantula would 
4465. That’s nothing wonderful,
4466. Alexander having on one occasion sent a letter to Antipater at Athens by a certain Athlios, Diogenes, who was present, said:  

4467. Graceless son of graceless sire to graceless wight by graceless squire. 
4468.   

4469. Still he was loved by the Athenians. At all events, when a youngster broke up his tub, they gave the boy a flogging and presented Diogenes with another. Dionysius the Stoic says that after Chaeronea he was seized and dragged off to Philip, and being asked who he was, replied, 
4470. A spy upon your insatiable greed.
4471. As for those who were excited over their dreams he would say that they cared nothing for what they did in their waking hours, but kept their curiosity for the visions called up in their sleep. At Olympia, when the herald proclaimed Dioxippus to be victor over the men, Diogenes protested, 
4472. Nay, he is victorious over slaves, I over men.
4473.   

4474. Further, when Meidias assaulted him and went on to say, 
4475. Unhappy man, don’t you know that you can no more get rid of errors of conduct by sprinklings than you can of mistakes in grammar?
4476. when I see a god-forsaken wretch like you?
4477. How can I help believing in them,
4478. There are 3000 blows to 
4479. your
4480. There are 3000 drachmas to your credit,
4481.   

4482. At Megara he saw the sheep protected by leather jackets, while the children went bare. 
4483. how came I to forget to put on a helmet when I walked out?
4484. Heracles,
4485. I am looking for a man.
4486. What, are you intending to strike me again?
4487. Look out,
4488. Where the wool was of fine quality, as near Tarentum (Hor. 
4489. It is better to be Herod’s pig than his son.
4490. R.R.
4491. pellitis ovibus
4492. Carm.
4493. to be a Megarian’s ram than his son.
4494. It’s better,
4495.   

4496. When mice crept on to the table he addressed them thus, 
4497. If a rich man, when you will; if a poor man, when you can.
4498. having broad nails.
4499. Here is Plato’s man.
4500. for I come back again and again to those who have sold me.
4501. Quite true,
4502. See now even Diogenes keeps parasites.
4503.  

4504.  In like manner, when somebody declared that there is no such thing as motion, he got up and walked about. When some one was discoursing on celestial phenomena, 
4505. if Agesilaus and Epaminondas are to dwell in the mire, while certain folk of no account will live in the Isles of the Blest because they have been initiated.
4506. It would be ludicrous,
4507. is the master of the house to get in?
4508. How then,
4509. Let nothing evil enter.
4510. were you in coming from the sky?
4511. How many days,
4512.   

4513. All the curses of tragedy, he used to say, had lighted upon him. At all events he was 

4514. Well, I for my part don’t see any.
4515. there’s land in sight.
4516. Cheer up, my men,
4517. Alex.
4518. Cf.
4519. Stand out of my light.
4520. Ask of me any boon you like.
4521. 
A homeless exile, to his country dead. 

4522. Nauck, 
4523. T.G.F.
4524. 2
4525. He dedicated to Asclepius a bruiser who, whenever people fell on their faces, used to run up to them and bruise them. 
4526.   

4527. One day, observing a child drinking out of his hands, he cast away the cup from his wallet with the words, 
4528. Are you not afraid, my good woman, that a god may be standing behind you?—for all things are full of his presence—and you may be put to shame?
4529. All things belong to the gods. The wise are friends of the gods, and friends hold things in common. Therefore all things belong to the wise.
4530. A child has beaten me in plainness of living.
4531.   

4532. To Xeniades, who purchased him, he said, 
4533. The friendship between you and me is broken by a little cheese worth half an obol.
4534. Lay your commands upon us, Diogenes,
4535. The friendship between you and me was broken by a tunny.
4536. If you had been ill and had purchased a doctor, would you then, instead of obeying him, have said 
4537. Backward the streams flow to their founts
4538. Backward the streams flow to their founts,
4539. Eur. 
4540. Med.
4541. Come, see that you obey orders.
4542.   

4543. He used to say that he followed the example of the trainers of choruses; for they too set the note a little high, to ensure that the rest should hit the right note. Most people, he would say, are so nearly mad that a finger makes all the difference. For, if you go along with your middle finger stretched out, some one will think you mad, but, if it’s the little finger, he will not think so. Very valuable things, said he, were bartered for things of no value, and 
4544. vice versa.
4545. Some one dropped a loaf of bread and was ashamed to pick it up; whereupon Diogenes, wishing to read him a lesson, tied a rope to the neck of a wine-jar and proceeded to drag it across the Ceramicus. 
4546.   

4547. To those who said to him, 
4548. There goes the demagogue of Athens.
4549. All the more you will be inside the tavern.
4550. if I were running in the stadium, ought I to slacken my pace when approaching the goal? ought I not rather to put on speed?
4551. What?
4552. You are an old man; take a rest,
4553.   
	
4554. The word 
4555. Nay, I defeat men, you defeat slaves.
4556. Anecdotes,
4557. πήρα
4558. ἀναπήρους
4559. disabled
4560.   
	
4561. Had I not been Alexander, I should have liked to be Diogenes.
4562. Anecdotes.
4563. It was men I called for, not scoundrels.
4564. after a little time down will be converted into up.
4565. Because,
4566. Why?
4567.   

4568. The boys used to get by heart many passages from poets, historians, and the writings of Diogenes himself; and he would practise them in every short cut to a good memory. In the house too he taught them to wait upon themselves, and to be content with plain fare and water to drink. He used to make them crop their hair close and to wear it unadorned, and to go lightly clad, barefoot, silent, and not looking about them in the streets. He would also take them out hunting. They on their part had a great regard for Diogenes and made requests of their parents for him. The same Eubulus relates that he grew old in the house of Xeniades, and when he died was buried by his sons. There Xeniades once asked him how he wished to be buried. To which he replied, 
4569. On my face.
4570.   

4571. And he said he marvelled that before we buy a jar or dish we try whether it rings true, but if it is a man are content merely to look 
4572. The Sale of Diogenes
4573. You must obey me, although I am a slave; for, if a physician or a steersman were in slavery, he would be obeyed.
4574.   
	
4575. He would praise those who were about to marry and refrained, those who intending to go a voyage never set sail, those who thinking to engage in politics do no such thing, those also who purposing to rear a family do not do so, and those who make ready to live with potentates, yet never come near them after all. He used to say, moreover, that we ought to stretch out our hands to our friends with the fingers open and not closed.
4576. for in whatever position fishes lie, they still find purchasers.
4577. It makes no difference,
4578. Govern men.
4579. Sale of Diogenes
4580. Menagius, followed by Hübner, on the authority of Ambrosius, reads 
4581. Sale of Diogenes.
4582. Hermippus
4583. let not thine hand be stretched out to receive, and shut when thou shouldest repay.
4584. μὴ ἔστω ἡ χείρ σου ἐκτετα μένη εἰς τὸ λαβεῖν καὶ ἐν τῷ ἀποδιδό ναι συνεστ αλμένη,
4585. Cf.
4586.   

4587. that the mathematicians should gaze at the sun 
4588.   

4589. Being asked where in Greece he saw good men, he replied, 
4590. From Epictetus iii. 15. 4 it is evident that competition in digging trenches (
4591. ἐν τῷ ἀγῶνι παρορύς σεσθαι
4592. Good men nowhere, but good boys at Lacedaemon.
4593.   

4594. And one day when Plato had invited to his house 
4595. If some one asks you how many two and two are, will you answer, Twenty? So, it seems, you neither give as you are asked nor answer as you are questioned.
4596. The point of Sotion’s version is best seen if for the indirect 
4597. πατῶ
4598. sc.
4599. τὸν Πλάτωνα ὁ κύων
4600. πατεῖν
4601. sc.
4602. τὸν Πλάτωνα τὸν κύνα
4603. Yes, Diogenes, with pride of another sort.
4604. I trample upon the pride of Plato,
4605. How much pride you expose to view, Diogenes, by seeming not to be proud.
4606. I trample upon Plato’s vainglory.
4607.   
	
4608. Observing Plato one day at a costly banquet taking olives, 
4609. I said you might share them, not that you might eat them all up.
4610. Miscellaneous History
4611. did you need to go to Syracuse? Was it that Attica at that time did not grow olives?
4612. Why then,
4613. there also for the most part I lived upon olives and such like.
4614. Nay, by the gods, Diogenes,
4615. that you the philosopher who sailed to Sicily for the sake of these dishes, now when they are before you do not enjoy them?
4616. Obviously Favorinus was not the author (
4617. vide infra
4618. How is it,
4619.   

4620. He was great at pouring scorn on his contemporaries. The school of Euclides he called bilious, and Plato’s lectures waste of time, the performances at the Dionysia great peep-shows for fools, and the demagogues the mob’s lacqueys. He used also to say that when he saw physicians, philosophers and pilots at their work, he deemed man the most intelligent of all animals; but when again he saw interpreters of dreams and diviners and those who attended to them, or those who were puffed up with conceit of wealth, he thought no animal more silly. He would continually say
4621. Some of the stories which follow are so much alike that it is charitable to suppose that Laertius drew from more than one collection of the sayings of Diogenes.
4622.   

4623. He did not lean upon a staff until he grew infirm; but afterwards he would carry it everywhere, not indeed in the city, but when walking along the road with it and with his wallet; so say Olympiodorus,
4624. An eminent politician. Pausanias, i. cc. 25, 26, describes a statue of Olympiodorus in the Acropolis, and takes occasion to recount his exploits, how (
4625. Ἀθηνόδωρος,
4626. Demetr.
4627. cf.
4628. c.
4629.   

4630. Through watching a mouse running about, says Theophrastus in the Megarian dialogue, not looking for a place to lie down in, not afraid of the dark, not seeking any of the things which are considered to be dainties, he discovered the means of adapting himself to circumstances. He was the first, say some, to fold his cloak because he was obliged to sleep in it as well, and he carried a wallet to hold his victuals, and he used any place for any purpose, for breakfasting, sleeping, or conversing. And then he would say, pointing to the portico of Zeus and the Hall of Processions, that the Athenians had provided him with places to live in. 
4631.   

4632. On reaching Athens he fell in with Antisthenes. Being repulsed by him, because he never welcomed pupils, by sheer persistence Diogenes wore him out. Once when he stretched out his staff against him, the pupil offered his head with the words, 
4633. Strike, for you will find no wood hard enough to keep me away from you, so long as I think you’ve something to say.
4634. One version is that his father entrusted him with the money and that he debased it, in consequence of which the father was imprisoned and died, while the son fled, came to Delphi, and inquired, not whether he should falsify the coinage, but what he should do to gain the greatest reputation; and that then it was that he received the oracle. 
4635.  
	
4636. Diogenes was a native of Sinope, son of Hicesius, a banker. Diocles relates that he went into exile because his father was entrusted with the money of the state and adulterated the coinage. But Eubulides in his book on Diogenes says that Diogenes himself did this and was forced to leave home along with his father. Moreover Diogenes himself actually confesses in his 
4637. Pordalus
4638. Chapter 2. DIOGENES (404-323 B.C.)
4639. 

4640.   

4641. And whereas we have enumerated the pupils of Aristippus and of Phaedo, we will now append an account of the Cynics and Stoics who derive from Antisthenes. And let it be in the following order. 
4642. There have been three other men named Antisthenes: one a follower of Heraclitus, another a 
4643. It was thought that he showed some weakness in bearing his malady through love of life. And here are my verses upon him
4644. Such was your nature, Antisthenes, that in your lifetime you were a very bulldog to rend the heart with words, if not with teeth. Yet you died of consumption. Maybe some one will say, What of that? We must anyhow have some guide to the world below. 
4645. Anth. Pal.
4646.   

4647. Timon finds fault with him for writing so much and calls him a prolific trifler. He died of disease just as Diogenes, who had come in, inquired of him, 
4648. from my pains, not from life.
4649. I said,
4650. This,
4651. Who will release me from these pains?
4652. Have you need of a friend?
4653. This is the list of his writings. 
4654. The contents of the tenth volume are: 

4655. Archelaus, or Of Kingship. 
4656. Alcibiades. 
4657. Menexenus, or On Ruling. 
4658. Cyrus, or The Scouts. 
4659. Cyrus, or The Beloved. 
4660. Heracles, or Of Wisdom or Strength. 
4661. Heracles, or Midas. 
4662. Of Odysseus, Penelope and the Dog. 
4663. Of Amphiaraus. 
4664. Of Circe. 
4665. Of the Use of Wine, or Of Intoxication, or Of the Cyclops. 
4666.   

4667. The ninth volume contains:  

4668. Cyclops, or Of Odysseus. 
4669. Of Proteus. 
4670. Of Helen and Penelope. 
4671. Athena, or Of Telemachus. 
4672. Of the Minstrel’s Staff. 
4673. Of the Odyssey. 
4674. In the eighth volume are: 

4675. On Pleasure. 
4676. On the Scout. 
4677. On Calchas. 
4678. On Wickedness and Impiety. 
4679. On Homer. 
4680. On Commentators. 
4681. On Music. 
4682. The seventh volume contains the following: 

4683. Problems about Learning. 
4684. Opinions, or The Controversialist. 
4685. A Problem concerning Nature, two books. 
4686. Of Nature, in two books. 
4687. Of Those in the Underworld. 
4688. Of Life and Death. 
4689. Of Dying. 
4690. Of Opinion and Knowledge, in four books. 
4691. Of Questioning and Answering. 
4692. On the Use of Names: a controversial work. 
4693. On Education, or On Names, in five books. 
4694.   

4695. The sixth: 

4696. On Talk. 
4697. Satho, or Of Contradiction, in three books. 
4698. Of Discussion: a handbook of debate. 
4699. Truth. 
4700. The fifth contains: 

4701. Aspasia. 
4702. Cyrus, or Of Sovereignty. 
4703. In the fourth volume are included: 

4704. The Greater Heracles, or Of Strength. 
4705. Cyrus. 
4706. In the third volume are treatises: 

4707. Of Victory: an economic work. 
4708. Of the Guardian, or On Obedience. 
4709. Of Belief. 
4710. Of Freedom and Slavery. 
4711. Of Law, or Of Goodness and Justice. 
4712. Of Law, or Of a Commonwealth. 
4713. Of Courage. 
4714. Of the Good. 
4715. Concerning Theognis, making a fourth and a fifth book. 
4716. On Justice and Courage: a hortative work in three books. 
4717. Of the Sophists: a work on Physiognomy. 
4718. Of Procreation of Children, or Of Marriage: a discourse on love. 
4719. Of the Nature of Animals. 
4720.   

4721. Vol. 2 includes: 
4722. His writings are preserved in ten volumes. The first includes: 
4723. A Reply to the Speech of Isocrates entitled 
4724. Without Witnesses.
4725. Isography (similar writing), or Lysias and Isocrates. 
4726. A Defence of Orestes, or Concerning Forensic Writers. 
4727. Odysseus, or Concerning Odysseus. 
4728. Ajax, or The Speech of Ajax. 
4729. A Treatise on Expression, or Styles of Speaking. 
4730. Antisthenes
4731. It seems clear that the passage which begins here is not from the same source as that (in § 14) which precedes the epigram.
4732.   

4733. Of all the Socratics Antisthenes alone is praised by Theopompus, who says he had consummate skill and could by means of agreeable discourse win over whomsoever he pleased. And this is clear from his writings and from Xenophon’s 
4734. Ye experts in Stoic story, ye who commit to sacred pages most excellent doctrines—that virtue alone is the good of the soul: for virtue alone saves man’s life and cities. But that Muse
4735. cf.
4736. i.e.
4737. Anth. Pal.
4738. Banquet.
4739.   

4740. himself too was nicknamed a hound pure and simple. And he was the first, Diocles tells us, to double his cloak and be content with that one garment and to take up a staff and a wallet. Neanthes too asserts that he was the first to double his mantle. Sosicrates, however, in the third book of his 
4741. Successions of Philosophers
4742. Wisdom is a most sure stronghold which never crumbles away nor is betrayed. Walls of defence must be constructed in our own impregnable reasonings. He used to converse in the gymnasium of Cynosarges (White hound) at no great distance from the gates, and some think that the Cynic school derived its name from Cynosarges. Antisthenes 
4743.   

4744. Diocles records the following sayings of his: To the wise man nothing is foreign or impracticable. A good man deserves to be loved. Men of worth are friends. Make allies of men who are at once brave and just. Virtue is a weapon that cannot be taken away. It is better to be with a handful of good men fighting against all the bad, than with hosts of bad men against a handful of good men. Pay attention to your enemies, for they are the first to discover your mistakes. Esteem an honest man above a kinsman. Virtue is the same for women as for men. Good actions are fair and evil actions foul. Count all wickedness foreign and alien. 
4745.   

4746. And he held virtue to be sufficient in itself to ensure happiness, since it needed nothing else except the strength of a Socrates. And he maintained that virtue is an affair of deeds and does not need a store of words or learning; that the wise man is selfsufficing, for all the goods of others are his; that ill repute is a good thing and much the same as pain; that the wise man will be guided in his public acts not by the established laws but by the law of virtue; that he will also marry in order to have children from union with the handsomest women; furthermore that he will not disdain to love, for only the wise man knows who are worthy to be loved. 
4747.   

4748. Favourite themes
4749. Here follow three extracts of Cynic maxims or rules of conduct; for, strictly speaking, they had no tenets proper ( 
4750. δόξαι, δόγματα
4751. For he fell in with some youths from Pontus whom the fame of Socrates had brought to Athens, and he led them off to Anytus, whom he ironically declared to be wiser than Socrates; whereupon (it is said) those about him with much indignation drove Anytus out of the city. If he saw a woman anywhere decked out with ornaments, he would hasten to her house and bid her husband bring out his horse and arms, and then, if the man possessed them, let his extravagance alone, for (he said) the man could with these defend himself; but, if he had none, he would bid him strip off the finery. 
4752.  

4753. Antisthenes is held responsible for the exile of Anytus and the execution of Meletus. 
4754. To the youth who was posing fantastically as an artist’s model he put this question, 
4755. when his boatload of salt fish arrives.
4756. The young man will pay,
4757. are you not ashamed of delighting in the very same quality as an inanimate object?
4758. Then,
4759. On its beauty,
4760. Tell me, if the bronze could speak, on what, think you, would it pride itself most?
4761.  

4762. what he must do to be good and noble, and he replied, 
4763. May the sons of your enemies live in luxury.
4764. You must learn from those who know that the faults you have are to be avoided.
4765. He used to recommend the Athenians to vote that asses are horses.
4766. Var. Hist.
4767. Cf.
4768. I spy your love of fame peeping through your cloak.
4769. Why, what wrong have I done?
4770. Many men praise you,
4771. But yet generals are found among you who had had no training, but were merely elected.
4772. Phaedrus
4773. Cf.
4774.   

4775. And he used to taunt Plato with being conceited. At all events when in a procession he spied a spirited charger he said, turning to Plato, 
4776. The bile I see, but not the pride.
4777. It seems to me that you would have made just such a proud, showy steed.
4778. Being asked what learning is the most necessary, he replied, 
4779. How to get rid of having anything to unlearn.
4780.  

4781. When brothers agree, no fortress is so strong as their common life, he said. The right outfit for a voyage, he said, is such as, even if you are shipwrecked, will go through the water with you. One day when he was censured for keeping company with evil men, the reply he made was, 
4782. Then you must accompany me on the pipe.
4783. The ability to hold converse with myself.
4784. that we weed out the darnel from the corn and the unfit in war, but do not excuse evil men from the service of the state.
4785. It is strange,
4786. Well, physicians are in attendance on their patients without getting 
4787.  

4788. Being asked what was the height of human bliss, he replied, 
4789. I am horribly afraid I have done something wrong.
4790. on your mind instead of on paper.
4791. You should have inscribed them,
4792. To die happy.
4793.  

4794. Being reproached because his parents were not both free-born, 
4795. Anecdotes
4796. Poor wretch, what peril you might have escaped at the price of an obol.
4797. Physicians are just the same with their patients.
4798. Because I use a silver rod to eject them.
4799. but yet I am a wrestler.
4800. Nor were they both wrestlers,
4801. When he was being initiated into the Orphic mysteries, the priest said that those admitted into these rites would be partakers of many good things in Hades. 
4802. don’t you die?
4803. Why then,
4804.  

4805. He was the first to define statement (or assertion) by saying that a statement is that which sets forth what a thing was or is. He used repeatedly to say, 
4806. Alex.
4807. Ἀντισθενικόν, βασιλικὸν μὲν εὐπράττειν, κακῶς δὲ ἀκούειν,
4808. Cf.
4809. It is a royal privilege to do good and be ill spoken of.
4810. If she’s beautiful, you’ll not have her to yourself; if she’s ugly, you’ll pay for it dearly.
4811. There is the same untranslateable pun upon 
4812. a mind too,
4813. καὶ νοῦ
4814. new
4815. καινοῦ
4816. Come with a new book, a new pen, and new tablets, if you have a mind to
4817. We ought to make love to such women as will feel a proper gratitude.
4818. I’d rather be mad than feel pleasure,
4819.  

4820. Later on, however, he came into touch with Socrates, and derived so much benefit from him that he used to advise his own disciples to become fellow-pupils with him of Socrates. He lived in the Peiraeus, and every day would tramp the five miles to Athens in order to hear Socrates. From Socrates he learned his hardihood, emulating his disregard of feeling, and thus he inaugurated the Cynic way of life. He demonstrated that pain is a good thing by instancing the great Heracles and Cyrus, drawing the one example from the Greek world and the other from the barbarians. 
4821. According to Hermippus he intended at the public gathering for the Isthmian games to discourse on the faults and merits of Athenians, Thebans and Lacedaemonians,  
4822.  

4823. To begin with, he became a pupil of Gorgias the rhetorician, and hence the rhetorical style that he introduces in his dialogues, and especially in his 
4824. Exhortations.
4825. Truth
4826. Antisthenes,
4827. Probably the battle in 426 b.c. mentioned in Thuc. iii. 91.
4828. De const. sap.
4829. De exilio
4830. Cf.
4831. The mother of the gods too is a Phrygian.
4832. Strom.
4833. Cf.
4834. Chapter 1. ANTISTHENES (c. 446-366 B.C.)
4835. BOOK VI
4836.  

4837.  

4838.  

4839. (3) a native of Cyme, who wrote of Persia in five books; (4) another native of Cyme, who wrote rhetorical textbooks; (5) of Callatis or Alexandria, author of the 
4840. Lembeuticus
4841. Succession of Philosophers
4842.  

4843. Fourteen persons have borne the name of Heraclides: (1) the subject of this notice; (2) a fellowcitizen of his, author of Pyrrhic verses and tales; 
4844. Dionysius, on perceiving this, confessed what he had done; and, when the other denied the fact and would not believe him, called his attention to the acrostic which gave the name of Pancalus, of whom Dionysius was very fond. Heraclides was still unconvinced. Such a thing, he said, might very well happen by chance. To this Dionysius, 
4845. Von Arnim’s emendation (
4846. And this besides: 
4847. Heraclides is ignorant of letters.
4848. ὁ δὲ
4849. Heraclides is ignorant of letters and not ashamed of his ignorance.
4850. b. Oh yes, he’s caught at last, but it takes time.
4851. a. An old monkey is not caught by a trap.
4852. We should say, 
4853. An old bird is not caught with chaff.
4854. You will also find these lines:
4855.  

4856. Aristoxenus the musician asserts that Heraclides also composed tragedies, inscribing upon them the name of Thespis. Chamaeleon complains that Heraclides’ treatise on the works of Homer and Hesiod was plagiarized from his own. Furthermore, Autodorus the Epicurean criticizes him in a polemic against his tract Of Justice. Again, Dionysius the Renegade, or, as some people call him, the 
4857. Spark,
4858.  

4859. Hermippus relates that, when their territory was visited by famine, the people of Heraclea besought the Pythian priestess for relief, but Heraclides bribed the sacred envoys as well as the aforesaid priestess to reply that they would be rid of the calamity if Heraclides, the son of Euthyphro, were crowned with a crown of gold in his lifetime and after his death received heroic honours. The pretended oracle was brought home, but its forgers got nothing by it. For directly Heraclides was crowned in the theatre, 
4860.  

4861. I have written of him as follows
4862. You wished, Heraclides, to leave to all mankind a reputation that after death you lived as a snake.
4863. Or, reading 
4864. wished to leave a report behind you that immediately after death you became a living snake.
4865. ἄπασι
4866. ἄπαρτι
4867. Anth. Pal.
4868. All this was done. But while the citizens were in the very midst of the procession and were loud in his praise, the snake, hearing the uproar, popped up out of the shroud, creating widespread confusion. Subsequently, however, all was revealed, and they saw Heraclides, not as he appeared, but as he really was.
4869.  

4870. It seems that he delivered his native city from oppressions by assassinating its ruler, as is stated in his work on 
4871. As a boy, and when he grew up, he kept a pet snake, and, being at the point of death, he ordered a trusted attendant to conceal the corpse but to place the snake on his bier, that he might seem to have departed to the gods. 
4872. Men of the Same Name
4873. Again, he has a sort of intermediate style of conversation which he employs when philosophers, generals and statesmen converse with each other.  Furthermore, he wrote geometrical and dialectical works, and is, besides, everywhere versatile and lofty in diction, and a great adept at charming the reader’s mind.
4874.  

4875. Some of these works are in the style of comedy, for instance the tracts On Pleasure and On Temperance; others in the style of tragedy, as the books entitled Of those in Hades, Of Piety, and Of Authority.
4876. To history:

4877. Of Discoveries.
4878. On the Pythagoreans.
4879. To rhetoric belongs:

4880. Of Public Speaking, or Protagoras.
4881. A Reply to Dionysius, one book.
4882. Admonitions, one book.
4883. Solutions, one book.
4884. Of Species, one book.
4885. Logical Proposition, one book.
4886. Solutions of Eristic Problems, two books.
4887. Expositions in Reply to Democritus, one book.
4888. Expositions of Heraclitus, four books.
4889. Concerning Prevision, one book.
4890. Of Conjecture, one book.
4891. Of Poetry and Poets, one book.
4892. Characters, one book.
4893. On the Three Tragic Poets, one book.
4894. Of Theorems, one book.
4895. Solutions of Homeric Problems, two books.
4896.  

4897. Of a literary nature are: 

4898. On Music, two books.
4899. A work on passages in Euripides and Sophocles, three books.
4900. To grammar and criticism belong:

4901. Of Archilochus and Homer, two books.
4902. Of the Age of Homer and Hesiod, two books
4903. Others are physical treatises:

4904. A Reply to Metron’s Doctrines, one book.
4905. Against Zeno’s Doctrines, one book.
4906. Of the Good, one book.
4907. The Causes of Diseases, one book.
4908. On Various Ways of Life, two books.
4909. Of Things in the Under-world.
4910. Of Celestial Phenomena, one book
4911. Against Democritus.
4912. Of Images.
4913. Of Nature.
4914. Of the Soul, and a separate treatise with the same title.
4915. Of Reason.
4916. Concerning Love, and Clinias, one book.
4917. On the Involuntary, one book.
4918. Agreements, one book.
4919. Of Names, one book.
4920. On Laws, one book, and on subjects kindred to these.
4921. Of Government, one book.
4922.  
	
4923. Heraclides, son of Euthyphro, born at Heraclea in the Pontus, was a wealthy man. At Athens he first attached himself to Speusippus. He also attended the lectures of the Pythagoreans and admired the writings of Plato. Last of all he became a pupil of Aristotle, as Sotion says in his 
4924. Of Happiness, one book.
4925. A second with the same title.
4926. Of Virtue in general, one book.
4927. Of Courage, one book.
4928. Of Piety, five books.
4929. Of Temperance, one book.
4930. Of Justice, three books.
4931. That Heraclides was a member of the Academy is established beyond all doubt by the fact that he was a candidate for the headship of the School on the death of Speusippus: 
4932. καθάπερ ἀμέλει πάντες οἱ Περιπατητικοί
4933. Index Acad.
4934. Successions of Philosophers.
4935. Chapter 6. HERACLIDES (floruit 360 B.C.)
4936.  

4937.  
	
4938. (14) a rhetorician of Smyrna. The foregoing were prose authors. Of poets bearing this name the first belonged to the Old Comedy; the second was an epic poet whose lines to the envious alone survive:

4939. While he lives they scorn the man whom they regret when he is gone; yet, some day, for the honour of his tomb and lifeless image, contention seizes cities and the people set up strife;
4940.  
	
4941. (8) the sophist who lived at Alexandria, author of handbooks of rhetoric; (9) a grammarian of Adramyttium, surnamed Ixion because he was thought to be unjust to Hera; (10) a grammarian of Cyrene, surnamed Wine-jar, an eminent man; (11) a native of Scepsis, a man of wealth and good birth, ardently devoted to learning; he was also the means of bringing his countryman Metrodorus into prominence; (12) a grammarian of Erythrae enrolled as a citizen of 
4942.  
	
4943. There have been twenty noteworthy men called Demetrius: (1) a rhetorician of Chalcedon, older than Thrasymachus; (2) the subject of this notice; (3) a Peripatetic of Byzantium; (4) one called the graphic writer, clear in narrative; he was also a painter; (5) a native of Aspendus, a pupil of Apollonius of Soli; (6) a native of Callatis, who wrote a geography of Asia and Europe in twenty books; (7) a Byzantine, who wrote a history of the migration of the Gauls from Europe into Asia in thirteen books, and another work in eight books dealing with Antiochus and Ptolemy and their settlement of Libya; 
4944. In prosperity friends do not leave you unless desired, whereas in adversity they stay away of their own accord. All these sayings seem to be set down to his credit.
4945.  

4946. His style is philosophical, with an admixture of rhetorical vigour and force. When he heard that the Athenians had destroyed his statues, 
4947. Since Herms at Athens show neither drapery nor belly, but archaic hair, this saying would seem either to be incorrectly reported or to need a fresh interpretation. It has been suggested that a long lock pendent over the shoulder may lurk under 
4948. Flor.
4949. τὴν μὲν γὰρ κόμην ἀνασεσύρθαι
4950. Var. Hist.
4951. σύρμα μένει πλοκάμων
4952. Anth. Pal.
4953. cf.
4954. σύομα
4955. is a four-square Hermes for you, with trailing robe, belly, beard and 
4956. There,
4957. but the merits which caused them to be erected they cannot destroy.
4958. That they may do,
4959.  

4960. And the following works, each in one book:

4961. Anecdotes.
4962. Aesop’s Fables.
4963. Rights.
4964. Of Old Age.
4965. A Sworn Assembly.
4966. Letters.
4967. Historical Introduction.
4968. On Antiphanes.
4969. A Denunciation of the Athenians.
4970. Concerning Chalcis.
4971. Dionysius.
4972. Of Opportunity.
4973. On Customs.
4974. On Laws.
4975. Of Peace.
4976. Of the Beam in the Sky.
4977. Schol. Par. Ap. Rh.
4978. cf.
4979. δόκησις
4980. Of Opinion,
4981. Of the Beam in the Sky.
4982. Of Marriage.
4983. Of Magnanimity.
4984. Of Fortune.
4985. Of Favour.
4986. Of Belief.
4987. Concerning Embassies.
4988. Of the Ionians.
4989. On the ten years of his own Supremacy.
4990. Of the Constitution.
4991. An Exhortation to Philosophy.
4992. Aristomachus.
4993. Aristides.
4994. Concerning Homer.
4995. Artaxerxes.
4996. Socrates.
4997. Cleon.
4998. Maedon.
4999. Phaedondas.
5000. Concerning Love.
5001. Ptolemy.
5002. On the Odyssey, four books.
5003. On the Iliad, two books.
5004.  

5005. In the number of his works and their total length in lines he has surpassed almost all contemporary Peripatetics. For in learning and versatility he has no equal. Some of these works are historical and others political; there are some dealing with poets, others with rhetoric. Then there are public speeches and reports of embassies, besides collections of Aesop’s fables and much else. He wrote:

5006. On Military Matters, two books.
5007. On Rhetoric, two books.
5008. Of Laws, one book.
5009. On Politics, two books.
5010. Of Statesmanship, two books.
5011. Of the Constitutions of Athens, two books.
5012. Of Legislation at Athens, five books.
5013.  

5014. Here are my lines upon him
5015. If you give it to another, you will not have it yourself.
5016. Successions of Philosophers
5017. A venomous asp was the death of the wise Demetrius, an asp withal of sticky venom, darting, not light from its eyes, but black death.
5018. Anth. Pal.
5019.  

5020. Hermippus tells us that upon the death of Casander, being in fear of Antigonus, he fled to Ptolemy Soter. There he spent a considerable time and advised Ptolemy, among other things, to invest with sovereign power his children by Eurydice. To this Ptolemy would not agree, but bestowed the diadem on his son by Berenice, who, after Ptolemy’s death, thought fit to detain Demetrius as a prisoner in the country until some decision should be taken concerning him. There he lived in great dejection, and somehow, in his sleep, received an asp-bite on the hand which proved fatal. He is buried in the district of Busiris near Diospolis.
5021. And in the official list the year in which he was archon was styled 
5022. the year of lawlessness,
5023.  
	
5024. Having been indicted by some persons on a capital charge, he let judgement go by default; and, when his accusers could not get hold of his person, they disgorged their venom on the bronze of his statues. These they tore down from their pedestals; some were sold, some cast into the sea, and others were even, it is said, broken up to make bedroom-utensils. Only one is preserved in the Acropolis. In his 
5025. Miscellaneous History
5026.  
	
5027. For all his popularity with the Athenians he nevertheless suffered eclipse through all-devouring envy. 
5028. For he was one of Conon’s household servants,
5029. of shining eyes
5030. having the eyelids of the Graces
5031. Table-talk
5032. Memorabilia
5033. The first sentence is paralleled by Aelian, 
5034. ἀστῇ καὶ εὐγενεῖ
5035. καίπερ οὐκ εὐγενὴς ὤν
5036. Δημήτριον δὲ τὸν Φαληρέα οἰκότριβα γενέσθαι λέγουσιν ἐκ τῆς οἰκίας τῆς Τιμοθέου καὶ Κόνωνος.
5037. Var. Hist.
5038.  

5039. Demetrius, the son of Phanostratus, was a native of Phalerum. He was a pupil of Theophrastus, but by his speeches in the Athenian assembly he held the chief power in the State for ten years and was decreed 360 bronze statues, most of them representing him either on horseback or else driving a chariot or a pair of horses. And these statues were completed in less than 300 days, so much was he esteemed. He entered politics, says Demetrius of Magnesia in his work on 
5040. 324 b.c.
5041. Men of the Same Name
5042. Chapter 5. DEMETRIUS (perhaps 350-280 B.C.; supreme in Athens 318-307 B.C.)
5043.  

5044.  

5045. Thus while his shrewdness is seen in all his actions, in his teaching and in all his studies, in some ways his will is no less remarkable for carefulness and wise management, so that in this respect also he is to be admired
5046. To Demetrius, to Crito and to Syrus I give a bed apiece and such bed-furniture out of my estate as Lyco shall think proper. These shall be given them for properly performing their appointed tasks. As regards my burial, let Lyco bury me here if he chooses, or if he prefers to bury me at home let him do so, for I am persuaded that his regard for propriety is not less than my own. When he has managed all these things, he can dispose of the property there, and such disposition shall be binding. Witnesses are Callinus of Hermione, Ariston of Ceos, Euphronius of Paeania.
5047.  

5048. And Chares I emancipate, and Lyco shall maintain him, and I bequeath him two minas and my published writings, while those which have not been given to the world I entrust to Callinus, that he may carefully edit them. To Syrus who has been set free I give four minas and Menodora, and I remit to him any debt he owes me. And to Hilara I give five minas and a double-napped rug, two cushions, a sofa-cover and a bed, whichever she prefers. I also set free the mother of Micrus as well as Noëmon, Dion, Theon, Euphranor and Hermias. Agathon should be set 
5049.  

5050. They shall also remunerate the physicians Pasithemis and Medias who for their attention to me and their skill deserve far higher reward. I bequeath to the child of Callinus a pair of Thericlean cups, and to his wife a pair of Rhodian vessels, a smooth carpet, a rug with nap on both sides, a sofa cover and two cushions the best that are left, that, so far as I have the means of recompensing them, I may prove not ungrateful. With regard to the servants who have waited upon me, my wishes are as follows. To Demetrius I remit the purchase-money for the freedom which he has long enjoyed, and bequeath to him five minas and a suit of clothes to ensure him a decent maintenance, in return for all the toil he has borne with me. To Crito of Chalcedon I also remit the purchasemoney for his freedom and bequeath to him four minas. And Micrus I emancipate; and Lyco shall keep him and educate him for the next six years. 
5051.  

5052. After my decease Lyco shall make over, for the use of the young men, the oil from the olive-trees belonging to me in Aegina for the due commemoration—so long as they use it—of myself and the benefactor who did me honour. He shall also set up my statue, and shall choose a convenient site where it shall be erected, with the assistance of Diophantus and Heraclides the son of Demetrius. From my property in town Lyco shall repay all from whom I have 
5053.  

5054. But my property in town and at Aegina I give to Lyco because he bears the same name with me, and has resided for a long time with me to my entire satisfaction, as became one whom I treated as my son. I leave the Peripatus to such of my friends as choose to make use of it, to Bulo, Callinus, Ariston, Amphion, Lyco, Pytho, Aristomachus, Heracleus, Lycomedes, and my nephew Lyco. They shall put over it any such person as in their opinion will persevere in the work of the school and will be most capable of extending it. And all my other friends should co-operate for love of me and of the spot. Bulo and Callinus, together with their colleagues, shall provide for my funeral and cremation, so as to avoid meanness on the one hand and extravagance on the other. 
5055.  

5056. These are my dispositions concerning my property, in case I should be unable to sustain my present ailment. All the goods in my house I give to my brothers Astyanax and Lyco, and from this source should, I think, be paid all the money I have laid out at Athens, whether by borrowing or by purchase, as well as all the cost of my funeral and the other customary charges. 
5057. I have also come across this philosopher’s will. It is this:
5058. Other men have borne the name of Lyco: (1) a Pythagorean, (2) our present subject, (3) an epic poet, (4) a poet who wrote epigrams.
5059.  

5060. He presided over the school forty-four years after Strato had bequeathed it to him by his will in the 127th Olympiad.
5061. Nor, I swear! will I pass over Lyco either, for all that he died of the gout. But this it is which amazes me the most, if he who formerly could walk only with the feet of others, did in a single night traverse the long, long road to Hades.
5062. Anth. Pal.
5063. 274-270 b.c.
5064. He was so hostile to Hieronymus the Peripatetic that he alone declined to meet him on the anniversary which we have mentioned in the Life of Arcesilaus.
5065. iv. 41.
5066.  

5067. In his dress he was most immaculate, so that the clothes he wore were unsurpassed for the softness of the material, according to Hermippus. Furthermore, he was well practised in gymnastics and kept himself in condition, displaying all an athlete’s habit of body, with battered ears and skin begrimed with oil, so we are told by Antigonus of Carystus. Hence it is said that he not only wrestled but played the game of ball common in his birthplace of Ilium. He was esteemed beyond all other philosophers by Eumenes and Attalus, who also did him very great service. Antiochus too tried to get hold of him, but without success. 
5068.  

5069. This was because Lyco’s voice was exceedingly sweet, so that some persons altered his name to Glyco, by prefixing a G. But in writing he fell off sadly. For instance, those who regretted their neglect to learn when they had the opportunity and wished they had done so he would hit off neatly as follows, remarking that 
5070. Many go in search of the garland of the market-place; few or none seek 
5071. they were their own accusers, betraying, by vain regret, repentance for an incorrigible laziness.
5072.  

5073. Strato’s successor was Lyco, the son of Astyanax of Troas, a master of expression and of the foremost rank in the education of boys. For he used to say that modesty and love of honour were as necessary an equipment for boys as spur and bridle for horses. His eloquence and sonorousness of diction appear from the following fact; he speaks of a penniless maiden as follows: 
5074. A grievous burden to a father is a girl, when for lack of a dowry she runs past the flower of her age.
5075. Chapter 4. LYCO (299-225 B.C.)
5076.  

5077.  

5078. Such are the terms of his extant will, according to the Collection of Ariston of Ceos. Strato himself, however, was, as stated above, a man entitled to full approbation,
5079. physics,
5080. De Fin.
5081. πολλῆς τῆς ἀποδοχῆς ἄξιος.
5082. As soon as Arcesilaus has arrived, Iraeus shall, with Olympichus, Epicrates, and the other executors, prepare an account of the money expended upon the funeral and the other customary charges. Whatever money remains over, Arcesilaus shall take over from Olympichus, without however pressing him as to times and seasons. Arcesilaus shall also cancel the agreement made by Strato with Olympichus and Ameinias and deposited with Philocrates the son of Tisamenus. With regard to my monument they shall make it as Arcesilaus, Olympichus and Lyco shall approve.
5083.  

5084. And in the first place Lampyrio and Arcesilaus shall 
5085.  

5086. The executors of this my will shall be Olympichus, Aristides, Mnesigenes, Hippocrates, Epicrates, Gorgylus, Diocles, Lyco, Athanes. I leave the school to Lyco, since of the rest some are too old and others too busy. But it would be well if the others would co-operate with him. I also give and bequeath to him all my books, except those of which I am the author, and all the furniture in the dining-hall, the cushions and the drinking-cups. The trustees shall give Epicrates 500 drachmas and one of the servants whom Arcesilaus shall approve. 
5087.  

5088. In case anything should happen to me I make these dispositions. All the goods in my house I give and bequeath to Lampyrio and Arcesilaus. From the money belonging to me in Athens, in the first place my executors shall provide for my funeral and for all that custom requires to be done after the funeral, without extravagance on the one hand or meanness on the other. 
5089. But to return to Strato the physicist. His will is also extant and it runs as follows:
5090. There have been eight men who bore the name of Strato: (1) a pupil of Isocrates; (2) our subject; (3) a physician, a disciple, or, as some say, a fosterchild, of Erasistratus; (4) a historian, who treated of the struggle of Philip and Perseus against the Romans; (5) * *; (6) a poet who wrote epigrams; (7) a physician who lived in ancient times, mentioned by Aristotle; (8) a Peripatetic philosopher who lived in Alexandria.
5091.  

5092. Strato is said to have grown so thin that he felt nothing when his end came. And I have written some lines upon him as follows
5093. A thin, spare man in body, take my word for it, owing to his use of unguents,
5094. Or 
5095. if you attend to me, I am content,
5096. Anth. Pal.
5097. Letters beginning 
5098. Strato to Arsinoë greeting.
5099. Lecture-notes, the genuineness of which is doubted.
5100. Examinations of Discoveries, in two books.
5101. Of the Future.
5102. Of the Property or Essential Attribute.
5103. Of the Genus of the Prior.
5104. Of the logically Prior and Posterior.
5105. Of Injustice.
5106. On difference of Degree.
5107. Of Definition.
5108.  

5109. There are extant of his works:

5110. Of Accident.
5111. Introduction to Topics.
5112. Solutions of Difficulties.
5113. Of Causes.
5114. On Animals in Folk-lore or Fable.
5115. On Animals the existence of which is questioned.
5116. On Growth and Nutrition.
5117. On Time.
5118. Of Enthusiasm or Ecstasy.
5119. On the Attributes Light and Heavy.
5120. Of Starvation and Dizziness.
5121. On Mining Machinery.
5122. On Faculties.
5123. Of the Crises in Diseases.
5124. Of Diseases.
5125. On Colours.
5126. Of Pleasure.
5127. Of Sensation.
5128. Of Vision.
5129. Of Dreams.
5130. Of Sleep.
5131. Of Mixture.
5132. On the Breeding of Animals.
5133. Of Human Nature.
5134. On the Wind.
5135. On the Heaven.
5136. On the Void.
5137. Of Courage.
5138. On the Philosopher-King.
5139. Of Happiness.
5140. On Various Modes of Life.
5141. On First Principles, three books.
5142. Of the Gods, three books.
5143. Of the Good, three books.
5144. Of Justice, three books.
5145. Of Kingship, three books.
5146.  
	
5147. His successor in the school was Strato, the son of 
5148. 288-284 b.c.
5149. Chronology
5150. the physicist,
5151. Chapter 3. STRATO (Head of the School 286-268 B.C.)
5152.  

5153.  
	
5154. There are some who say that Erasistratus the physician was also a pupil of his, and it is not improbable.
5155. Such is the tenor of his will.
5156. One copy of the will, sealed with the signet-ring of Theophrastus, is deposited with Hegesias, the son of Hipparchus, the witnesses being Callippus of Pallene, Philomelus of Euonymaea, Lysander of Hyba, and Philo of Alopece. Olympiodorus has another copy, the witnesses being the same. The third copy was received by Adeimantus, the bearer being Androsthenes junior; and the witnesses are Arimnestus the son of Cleobulus, Lysistratus the son of Pheidon of Thasos, Strato the son of Arcesilaus of Lampsacus, Thesippus the son of Thesippus of Cerameis, and Dioscurides the son of Dionysius of Epicephisia.
5157.  
	
5158. But, since I saw that it 
5159.  
	
5160. And of my slaves I at once emancipate Molon and Timon and Parmeno; to Manes and Callias I give their freedom on condition that they stay four years in the garden and work there together and that their conduct is free from blame. Of my household furniture let so much as the executors think right be given to Pompylus and let the rest be sold. I also devise Carion to Demotimus, and Donax to Neleus. But Euboeus must be sold. Let Hipparchus pay to Callinus 3000 drachmas. And if I had not seen that Hipparchus had done great service to Melantes and Pancreon and formerly to me, and that now in his private affairs he has made shipwreck, I would have appointed him jointly with Melantes and Pancreon to carry out my wishes. 
5161.  
	
5162. And according to previous agreement let the charge of attending, after my decease, to the temple and the monument and the garden and the walk be shared by Pompylus in person, living close by as he does, and exercising the same supervision over all other matters as before; and those who hold the property shall watch over his interests. Pompylus and Threpta have long been emancipated and have done me much service; and I think that 2000 drachmas certainly ought to belong to them from previous payments made to them by me, from their own earnings, and my present bequest to them to be paid by Hipparchus, as I stated many times in conversation with Melantes and Pancreon themselves, who agreed with me. I give and bequeath to them the maidservant Somatale. 
5163.  

5164. since it is not possible for all men to be always in residence, on condition that no one alienates the property or devotes it to his private use, but so that they hold it like a temple in joint possession and live, as is right and proper, on terms of familiarity and friendship. Let the community consist of Hipparchus, Neleus, Strato, Callinus, Demotimus, Demaratus, Callisthenes, Melantes, Pancreon, Nicippus. Aristotle, the son of Metrodorus and Pythias, shall also have the right to study and associate with them if he so desire. And the oldest of them shall pay every attention to him, in order to ensure for him the utmost proficiency in philosophy. Let me be buried in any spot in the garden which seems most suitable, 
5165.  

5166. Further, to repair the altar so that it may be perfect and elegant. It is also my wish that the statue of Nicomachus should be completed of life size. The price agreed upon for the making of the statue itself has been paid to Praxiteles, but the rest of the cost should be defrayed from the source above mentioned. The statue should be set up in whatever place seems desirable to the executors entrusted with carrying out my other testamentary dispositions. Let all that concerns the temple and the offerings set up be arranged in this manner. The estate at Stagira belonging to me I give and bequeath to Callinus. The whole of my library I give to Neleus. The garden and the walk and the houses adjoining the garden, all and sundry, I give and bequeath to such of my friends hereinafter named as may wish to study literature and philosophy there in common, 
5167. Cf.
5168.  

5169. All will be well; but in case anything should happen, I make these dispositions. I give and bequeath all my property at home
5170. Evidently the Museum had suffered in some recent political troubles, perhaps the second siege of Athens by Demetrius Poliorcetes, 296-294 b.c. Plut. 
5171. Demetr.
5172. Demetr.
5173. Mentioned below, §§ 53, 54, 55, 66. We infer that he had been acting as trustee not only for Theophrastus but for the School, which in the eye of the law was a religious foundation.
5174. i.e.
5175. I have also come across his will, couched in the following terms:
5176.  

5177. In all 232,808 lines. So much for his writings.
5178. On Animals.
5179. On Fruits.
5180. On Nature.
5181. Concerning Politics, two books.
5182. Of the Heavens, one book.
5183. Definitions concerning the Diction of Syllogisms, one book.
5184. On Numbers, one book.
5185. [An Exhortation to Philosophy, one book.]
5186. Of Education or of the Virtues or of Temperance, one book.
5187. Another treatise with the same title, one book.
5188. On the Education of Children, one book.
5189. On Relevant Arguments, one book.
5190. On Times of Crisis, two books.
5191. Evias, one book.
5192. Of Piety, one book.
5193. Correspondence with Astycreon, Phanias and Nicanor.
5194. [Of Calumny, one book.]
5195. On Forensic Speeches, one book.
5196. Acicharus, one book.
5197. Arithmetical Researches on Growth, one book.
5198. Astronomical Research, six books.
5199. Relating to Aeschylus, one book.
5200. Prolegomena to Topics, one book.
5201.  

5202. On the Fallacy known as the Liar, three books.
5203. What are the methods of attaining Knowledge, one book.
5204. [On Problems in Physics, one book.]
5205. On Things generally admitted, one book.
5206. On the Eruption in Sicily, one book.
5207. Lecture-Notes, one book.
5208. How States can best be governed, one book.
5209. Exhortation to Philosophy, one book.
5210. A Reply to the Academics, one book.
5211. Of the Happiness of the Gods, one book.
5212. On the Musicians, one book.
5213. On Greater and Less, one book.
5214. On Data, one book.
5215. Relating to Definitions, two books.
5216. On Vision, four books.
5217. On Motion, two books.
5218. Of the Intelligence and Character of Animals, one book.
5219. Of Becoming, one book.
5220. [Of Calumny, one book.]
5221. On Democritus, one book.
5222. Of Causes, one book.
5223. Of Kingship, two books.
5224. Theses, three books.
5225. Two books of Refutative Arguments.
5226. Epitomes of Aristotle’s work on Animals, six books.
5227.  

5228. Geometrical Researches, four books.
5229. Of the Gods, three books.
5230. The History of Theological Inquiry, six books.
5231. On Truth and Falsehood, one book.
5232. [Character Sketches, one book.]
5233. On Gratitude, one book.
5234. Epitome of Physical Opinions, one book.
5235. Sixteen books of Physical Opinions.
5236. Lecture Notes of Aristotle or Theophrastus, six books.
5237. On Acting, one book.
5238. The Special Commonplaces of the Treatises on Rhetoric, seventeen books.
5239. On the Art of Rhetoric, one book.
5240. On Solecisms, one book.
5241. On Consultation, one book.
5242. Of the Wise, one book.
5243. Another tract on the Art of Poetry, one book.
5244. On Introduction and Narrative, one book.
5245. On Example, one book.
5246. On Physical Problems, one book.
5247. A Collection of Problems, one book.
5248. Preludes, one book.
5249.  

5250. Problems in Politics, Ethics, Physics, and in the Art of Love, one book.
5251. On the Art of Poetry, one book.
5252. Of Wealth, one book.
5253. Rhetorical Precepts, one book.
5254. On Taking an Oath, one book.
5255. Concerning Conversation, one book.
5256. A Compendium of the Writings of Xenocrates, one book.
5257. On Illegalities, one book.
5258. On Laws, one book.
5259. Megacles, one book.
5260. On Measures, one book.
5261. On Music, three books.
5262. Solutions, one book.
5263. A Compendium of Arguments, one book.
5264. Of Diction, one book.
5265. [Of Metres, one book.]
5266. Of Comedy, one book.
5267. To Casander on Kingship, one book.
5268. Of the Sea, one book.
5269. Of Flattery, one book.
5270. On Judging of Syllogisms, one book.
5271. On Research, one book.
5272. On Tumult or Riot, one book.
5273. Character Sketches, one book.
5274. Lectures on Ethics, one book.
5275. Of Discoveries, two books.
5276. On Enthymemes, one book.
5277. Of Good Fortune, one book.
5278. On Festivals, one book.
5279. Panegyrics on the Gods, one book.
5280.  

5281. Of Secretion, one book.
5282. On Animals produced spontaneously, one book.
5283. Three books of Letters.
5284. Of Experience, one book.
5285. Of Praise, one book.
5286. On Calumny, one book.
5287. On Crimes, one book.
5288. On Differences, one book.
5289. Divisions, two books.
5290. Afternoon Essays, two books.
5291. Of the Ludicrous, one book.
5292. On Judgement, one book.
5293. On Negation, one book.
5294. Materials for Argument, or Contrarieties, one book.
5295. Of Virtue, one book.
5296. Harmonics, one book.
5297. On Simple Problems, one book.
5298. On Unscientific Proofs, one book.
5299. One Dissertation on the Soul.
5300. Of False Pleasure, one book.
5301. On Juices, five books.
5302. Of Botanical Causes, eight books.
5303. Of Botanical Researches, ten books.
5304. A Reply to the Physical Philosophers, one book
5305. Eight books of Physics.
5306. An Epitome of Physics, two books.
5307. On Physics, eighteen books.
5308. On Nature, three books.
5309.  

5310. Of Ambition, two books.
5311. Of Friendship, three books.
5312. On Sleep and Dreams, one book.
5313. On Water, three books.
5314. Of Tyranny, one book.
5315. On Hair, one book.
5316. Of Punishment, two books.
5317. Two books of Topics.
5318. On the solution of Syllogisms, one book.
5319. Two books of Sophisms.
5320. On Symptoms, one book.
5321. On the Passions, one book.
5322. Of Mental Derangement, one book.
5323. Of Suffocation, one book.
5324. Of Paralysis, one book.
5325. On Winds, one book.
5326. On Fire, two books.
5327. On Coagulation and Liquefaction, one book.
5328. On Proverbs, one book.
5329. A Collection of Problems, five books.
5330. Of the Best Constitution, one book.
5331. Of Social Customs, four books.
5332. A Political Treatise dealing with important Crises, four books.
5333. Of Politics, six books.
5334. Of Legislators, three books.
5335. Introduction to Propositions, eighteen books.
5336. On Wine and Oil.
5337. On Smells, one book.
5338. Remarks upon Definitions, one book.
5339.  

5340. Ten books of an Epitome of Laws.
5341. Twenty-four books of Laws distinguished by the letters of the alphabet.
5342. On Intoxication, one book.
5343. Two books of Meteorology.
5344. Compendium on the Doctrines of Metrodorus, one book.
5345. On Honey, one book.
5346. On Mines, two books.
5347. Of Melancholy, one book.
5348. Megarian Treatise, one book.
5349. On Fainting, one book.
5350. On Pestilences, one book.
5351. On Precious Stones, one book.
5352. On Motion, three books.
5353. On Fatigues, one book.
5354. Callisthenes, or On Bereavement, one book.
5355. On Affirmation and Negation, one book.
5356. On Sweating Sickness, one book.
5357. On Vertigo and Dizziness, one book.
5358. On Hot and Cold, one book.
5359. Theses, twenty-four books.
5360. Another treatise on Pleasure, one book.
5361. Of Pleasure according to Aristotle, one book.
5362. Of Animals, seven books.
5363. Of Animals that burrow, one book.
5364. Of those which change their Colours, one book.
5365.  

5366. Of the Animals which are confined to Dry Land, one book.
5367. Of Animals reputed to be spiteful, one book.
5368. Of Animals which bite or gore, one book.
5369. Of Sudden Appearances, one book.
5370. On the Diversity of Sounds uttered by Animals of the same Species, one book.
5371. Epitome of Plato’s Republic, two books.
5372. Of the Voluntary, one book.
5373. Three books of Polemical Objections.
5374. Eighteen books of Refutative Arguments.
5375. Concerning Empedocles, one book.
5376. On Frenzy, one book.
5377. On Epilepsy, one book.
5378. On Species or Forms, two books.
5379. Of Happiness, one book.
5380. Another Treatise on Love, one book.
5381. Concerning Love, one book.
5382. Three books of Definitions.
5383. Compendium of the Writings of Diogenes, one book.
5384. Of Mankind, one book.
5385. Of the Order of the World, one book.
5386. On Flavours, Colours and Flesh, one book.
5387. On Visual Images or Emanations, one book.
5388. On Meteorology, one book.
5389. On the Astronomy of Democritus, one book.
5390. Of Old Age, one book.
5391. 

5392. He too has left a very large number of writings. I think it right to catalogue them also because they abound in excellence of every kind. They are as follows:

5393. Of Various Schemes of Life, three books.
5394. Of the Education of Kings, one book.
5395. Of Kingship, one book.
5396. Characteristics of Virtues, one book.
5397. Of the Winds, one book.
5398. Two books of Lectures.
5399. On Indivisible Lines, one book.
5400. Of Petrifactions, two books.
5401. Of Salt, Nitre and Alum, one book.
5402. On the Writings of Archelaus, one book.
5403. On the Writings of Anaximenes, one book.
5404. On the Writings of Anaxagoras, one book.
5405. A Reply to Anaxagoras, one book.
5406. Of the Senses, one book.
5407. Polemical discussion on the Theory of Eristic Argument.
5408. Two books of Classified Topics.
5409. Epitome of Analytics, one book.
5410. On the Analysis of Syllogisms, one book.
5411. Seven books of Posterior Analytics.
5412. Three books of Prior Analytics.
5413.  
	
5414. Cf.
5415. For when we are just beginning to live, lo! we die. Nothing then is so unprofitable as the love of glory. Farewell, and may you be happy. Either drop my doctrine, which involves a world of labour, or stand forth its worthy champions, for you will win great glory. Life holds more disappointment than advantage. But, as I can no longer discuss what we ought to do, do you go on with the inquiry into right conduct.
5416.  

5417. It is said that his disciples asked him if he had any last message for them, to which he replied: 
5418. Nothing else but this, that many of the pleasures which life boasts are but in the seeming. 
5419. He died at the age of eighty-five, not long after he had relinquished his labours. My verses upon him are these
5420. Not in vain was the word spoken to one of human kind, 
5421. Slacken the bow of wisdom and it breaks.
5422. Anth. Pal
5423. To some one who never opened his lips at a banquet he remarked: 
5424. Yours is a wise course for an ignoramus, but in an educated man it is sheer folly.
5425. 

5426. And Aristippus, in his fourth book 
5427. ought to be trusted sooner than a badly-arranged discourse.
5428. An unbridled horse,
5429. On the Luxury of the Ancients
5430.  

5431. Although his reputation stood so high, nevertheless for a short time he had to leave the country with all the other philosophers, when Sophocles the son of Amphiclides proposed a law that no philosopher should preside over a school except by permission of the Senate and the people, under penalty of death. The next year, however, the philosophers returned, as Philo had prosecuted Sophocles for making an illegal proposal. Whereupon the Athenians repealed the law, fined Sophocles five talents, and voted the recall of the philosophers, in order that Theophrastus also might return and live there as before. He bore the name of Tyrtamus, and it was Aristotle who re-named him Theophrastus on account of his graceful style. 
5432.  
	
5433. Furthermore, he was ever ready to do a kindness and fond of discussion. Casander certainly granted him audience and Ptolemy made overtures to him. And so highly was he valued at Athens that, when Agnonides ventured to prosecute him for impiety, the prosecutor himself narrowly escaped punishment. About 2000 pupils used to attend his lectures. In a letter to Phanias the 
5434. pedant.
5435. To get a public or even a select circle such as one desires is not easy. If an author reads his work, he must re-write it. Always to shirk revision and ignore criticism is a course which the present generation of pupils will no longer tolerate.
5436. In the extract from the letter Theophrastus seems to be considering the best means of preparing for publication what he has to say, possibly in lecture, before the large class which, as we have just been informed, sometimes numbered 2000. It is difficult to see how this topic can have been worked into a letter on the law courts as such, and there is much to be said for Mr. Wyse’s emendation 
5437. διδασκαλίου.
5438.  
	
5439. Theophrastus was a native of Eresus, the son of Melantes, a fuller, as stated by Athenodorus in the eighth book of his 
5440. Memorabilia
5441. Historical Parallels.
5442. 323 b.c.
5443. Walks.
5444. Chapter 2. THEOPHRASTUS (c. 370-286 B.C.) (Head of the School from 323 B.C.)
5445.  

5446.  

5447. Aristotle of Stagira had many disciples; the most distinguished was Theophrastus, of whom we have next to speak.
5448. There were in all eight Aristotles: (1) our philosopher himself; (2) an Athenian statesman,
5449. On Redundancy
5450. Iliad
5451. Probably this is the Aristotle who appears in Plato’s dialogue 
5452. Parmenides
5453.  

5454. He held many other opinions on a variety of subjects which it would be tedious to enumerate. For altogether his industry and invention were remarkable, as is shown by the catalogue of his writings given above, which come to nearly 400 in number, 
5455. i.e.
5456. There are two senses of 
5457. potential.
5458. potential,
5459.  

5460. By the term realization he means that which has an incorporeal form. This realization, according to him, is twofold.
5461. potentially possessed of life,
5462. organic
5463. of a natural body,
5464.  

5465. In the sphere of natural science he surpassed all other philosophers in the investigation of causes, so that even the most insignificant phenomena were explained by him. Hence the unusual number of scientific notebooks which he compiled. Like Plato he held that God was incorporeal; that his providence extended to the heavenly bodies, that he is unmoved, and that earthly events are regulated by their affinity with them (the heavenly bodies). Besides the four elements he held that there is a fifth, of which the celestial bodies are composed. Its motion is of a different kind from that of the other elements, being circular. Further, he maintained the soul to be incorporeal, defining it as the first entelechy [
5466. De anima
5467. i.e.
5468.  

5469. He defined friendship as an equality of reciprocal good-will, including under the term as one species the friendship of kinsmen, as another that of lovers, and as a third that of host and guest. 
5470. Rhet.
5471. Cf. supra
5472. He held that the virtues are not mutually interdependent. For a man might be prudent, or again just, and at the same 
5473.  

5474. The one ethical end he held to be the exercise of virtue in a completed life. And happiness he maintained to be made up of goods of three sorts: goods of the soul, which indeed he designates as of the highest value; in the second place bodily goods, health and strength, beauty and the like; and thirdly external goods, such as wealth, good birth, reputation and the like. And he regarded virtue as not of itself sufficient to ensure happiness; bodily goods and external goods were also necessary, for the wise man would be miserable if he lived in the midst of pains, poverty, and similar circumstances. Vice, however, is sufficient in itself to secure misery, even if it be ever so abundantly furnished with corporeal and external goods. 
5475.  
	
5476. As making for discovery he left in the 
5477. Posterior Analytics.
5478. Prior
5479. Methodics
5480. Topics
5481.  

5482. Such is the number of the works written by him. And in them he puts forward the following views. There are two divisions of philosophy, the practical and the theoretical. The practical part includes ethics and politics, and in the latter not only the doctrine of the state but also that of the household is sketched. The theoretical part includes physics and logic, although logic is not an independent science, but is elaborated as an instrument to the rest of science. And he clearly laid down that it has a twofold aim, probability and truth. For each of these he employed two faculties, dialectic and rhetoric where probability is aimed at, analytic and 
5483.  

5484. In all 445,270 lines.
5485. Elegiac verses beginning 
5486. Daughter of a Mother blessed with fair offspring
5487. Καλλιτέκνου μητρὸς θύγατερ
5488. Verses beginning 
5489. Holy One and Chiefest of Gods, far-darting
5490. Ἁγνὲ θεῶν πρέσβισθʼ ἑκατηβόλε
5491. In reply to Democritus, one book.
5492. To Philoxenus, one book.
5493. To Themistagoras, one book.
5494. To Hephaestion, one book.
5495. To Olympias, one book.
5496. To Ariston, one book.
5497. To Mentor, one book.
5498. Letters to Antipater, nine books.
5499. Letters to Alexander, four books.
5500. Letters of Selymbrians.
5501. Letters to Philip.
5502. Constitutions of 158 Cities, in general and in particular, democratic, oligarchic, aristocratic, tyrannical.
5503.  

5504. De Interpretatione, one book.
5505. Categories, one book.
5506. Four books of Laws.
5507. Laws of the Mess-table, one book.
5508. Proverbs, one book.
5509. Dramatic Records, one book.
5510. Of Tragedies, one book.
5511. Dramatic Victories at the Dionysia, one book.
5512. Criticism of the List of Pythian Victors, one book.
5513. Concerning Delphi, one book.
5514. On Music, one book.
5515. Victors at the Pythian Games, one book.
5516. Victors at Olympia, one book.
5517. Claims advanced, one book.
5518. Descriptions of Genera, fourteen books.
5519. Miscellaneous Notes, twelve books.
5520. Analogies, one book.
5521. On the Magnet, one book.
5522. Problems taken from the works of Democritus, two books.
5523. Mechanics, one book.
5524. Two books of Routine Instruction.
5525. Two books of Problems which have been examined.
5526. Thirty - eight books of Physics according to the lettering.
5527. Poetics, one book.
5528. Six books of Homeric Problems.
5529. Concerning Memory, one book.
5530. On Music, one book.
5531. On Motion, one book.
5532. Concerning Optics, one book.
5533. Concerning Astronomy, one book.
5534. Prognostics of Storms, one book.
5535.  

5536. On the Unit, one book.
5537. Two books concerning Medicine.
5538. Concerning Physiognomy, one book.
5539. On Plants, two books.
5540. On Sterility, one book.
5541. On the Animals of Fable, one book.
5542. On Composite Animals, one book.
5543. A selection of Dissections, one book.
5544. Eight books of Dissections.
5545. On Animals, nine books.
5546. On the Pythagoreans, one book.
5547. A Reply to the Writings of Zeno, one book.
5548. A Reply to the Writings of Xenophanes, one book.
5549. A Reply to the Writings of Gorgias, one book.
5550. A Reply to the Pythagoreans, one book.
5551. A Reply to the Writings of Alcmaeon, one book.
5552. A Reply to the Writings of Melissus, one book.
5553. Extracts from the 
5554. Timaeus
5555. On the Philosophy of Speusippus and Xenocrates, one book.
5556. On the Philosophy of Archytas, three books.
5557. Concerning Nature, one book.
5558. On Nature, three books.
5559. A Collection or Compendium, two books.
5560.  

5561. Of Taking Counsel, one book.
5562. On Diction, two books.
5563. Divisions of Enthymemes, one book.
5564. Of Degree,
5565. Rhetoric
5566. Introduction to Aristotle’s Rhetoric,
5567. Degree
5568. μᾶλλον καὶ ἧττον
5569. Περὶ μεγέθους,
5570. Rhetorical Enthymemes, one book.
5571. A Treatise on the Art of Poetry, two books.
5572. Compendium of the 
5573. Art
5574. Concerning Method, one book.
5575. Another Collection of Handbooks, two books.
5576. Art, a Handbook, one book.
5577. Two books of the Art of Rhetoric.
5578. A Collection of Arts [that is, Handbooks], two books.
5579. Of Just Actions, two books.
5580. Eight books of a course of lectures on Politics like that of Theophrastus.
5581. Politics, two books.
5582. Theses concerning the Soul, one book.
5583. Theses concerning Friendship, two books.
5584. Theses concerning Love, four books.
5585. Theses for Refutation, twenty-five books.
5586. On the Beautiful, one book.
5587. On the Voluntary, one book.
5588. Propositions, one book.
5589. Of Pleasure, one book.
5590. Two books of Refutations.
5591. Definitions, thirteen books.
5592. Concerning Mathematics, one book.
5593. Concerning Logical Division, one book.
5594. Affections or Qualities, one book.
5595. Two books of Topics criticizing the Definitions.
5596. Preface to Commonplaces, one book.
5597. Of the Desirable and the Contingent, one book.
5598. Concerning Syllogism with Definitions, one book.
5599.  

5600. Two books of Syllogisms.
5601. Definitions prefixed to the Topics, seven books.
5602. On the Idea, one book.
5603. Of the Greater Good, one book.
5604. Eight books of Methodics.
5605. Of Problems, one book.
5606. Two books of Greater Posterior Analytics.
5607. Eight books of Prior Analytics.
5608. Syllogisms, one book.
5609. Controversial Propositions, one book.
5610. Propositions, one book.
5611. Of Motion, one book.
5612. On Dialectical Questioning and Answering, two books.
5613. Concerning Division, one book.
5614. Logical Divisions, seventeen books.
5615. Of Logical Principle, one book.
5616. Of Science, one book.
5617. On Elements, three books.
5618. Five books of Ethics.
5619. Of Passions or of Anger, one book.
5620. On the Various Meanings of Terms or Expressions where a Determinant is added, one book.
5621. Objections, one book.
5622. Propositions concerning Virtue, two books.
5623. Three note - books on Arguments for Purposes of Refutation.
5624.  

5625. 

5626. On Essential Attributes, one book.
5627. On Genera and Species, one book.
5628. On Contraries, one book.
5629. Sophistical Divisions, four books.
5630. Solutions of Controversial Questions, four books.
5631. On Controversial Questions, two books.
5632. Of Sciences, one book.
5633. On being or having been affected, one book.
5634. Of Friendship, one book.
5635. Of Household Management, one book.
5636. Extracts from the Republic, two books.
5637. Extracts from Plato’s Laws, three books.
5638. Of the Good, three books.
5639. On Education, one book.
5640. On Kingship, one book.
5641. Alexander, or a Plea for Colonies, one book.
5642. On Pleasure, one book.
5643. On Noble Birth, one book.
5644. Of Prayer, one book.
5645. Of the Soul, one book.
5646. Exhortation to Philosophy, one book.
5647. Of Wealth, one book.
5648. Symposium, one book.
5649. Concerning Love, one book.
5650. Menexenus, one book.
5651. The Sophist, one book.
5652. Nerinthus, one book.
5653. On Rhetoric, or Grylus, one book.
5654. Of the Statesman, two books.
5655. On Philosophy, three books.
5656. On Poets, three books.
5657. Of Justice, four books.
5658.  
	
5659. His writings are very numerous and, considering the man’s all-round excellence, I deemed it incumbent on me to catalogue them
5660. This is one of three catalogues which we have of the Aristotelian writings. Hesychius furnishes one, appended to his Life of Aristotle; see V. Rose’s edition of the Fragments, p. 9 
5661. seq.
5662. seq.
5663. When some one accused him of having given a subscription to a dishonest man—for the story is also 
5664. N.E.
5665. E.E.
5666. Ethics
5667. He who has friends can have no true friend.
5668. Memorabilia
5669. As we should wish them to behave to us.
5670. that I assisted, but humanity.
5671. It was not the man,
5672. Cf. supra
5673.  
	
5674. To the query, 
5675. No, indeed; for I was not attending to you.
5676. Have I bored you to death with my chatter?
5677. By pressing hard on those in front and not waiting for those behind.
5678. Cicero ascribed a similar reply to Xenocrates: 
5679. De rep.
5680. ut id sua sponte facerent, quod cogerentur facere legibus
5681. This, that I do without being ordered what some are constrained to do by their fear of the law.
5682. is a blind man’s question.
5683. That,
5684. A single soul dwelling in two bodies.
5685. What is a friend?
5686.  

5687. Others attribute this definition to Diogenes; Aristotle, they say, defined good looks as the gift of god, Socrates as a short-lived reign, 
5688. That is not the point to consider, but who it is that is worthy of a great country.
5689. Cf. supra
5690. as the living from the dead.
5691. As much,
5692.  

5693. He may even scourge me so it be in my absence.
5694. Great is Diogenes.
5695. It is a waking dream.
5696. Gratitude.
5697. What is it that soon grows old?
5698. are bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
5699. The roots of education,
5700.  

5701. Some exceedingly happy sayings are attributed to him, which I proceed to quote. To the question, 
5702. As sight takes in light from the surrounding air, so does the soul from mathematics.
5703. Cf. infra
5704. It was the man and not his character that I pitied.
5705. Just this, that when they speak the truth they are not believed.
5706. What do people gain by telling lies?
5707.  
	
5708. Such is the tenor of Aristotle’s will. It is said that a very large number of dishes belonging to him were found, and that Lyco mentioned his bathing in a bath of warm oil and then selling the oil. Some relate that he placed a skin of warm oil on his stomach, and that, when he went to sleep, a bronze ball was placed in his hand with a vessel under it, in order that, when the ball dropped from his hand into the vessel, he might be waked up by the sound.
5709. Next come (
5710. c
5711. b
5712. a
5713. and shall dedicate my mother’s statue to Demeter at Nemea or wherever they think best. And wherever they bury me, there the bones of Pythias shall be laid, in accordance with her own instructions. And to commemorate Nicanor’s safe return, as I vowed on his behalf, they shall set up in Stagira stone statues of life size to Zeus and Athena the Saviours.
5714. The last clause was curiously misunderstood by three eminent authorities on Aristotle, namely Grant, Grote and Zeller, who took 
5715. Stiftungen in der griech. u. röm. Antike.
5716. sqq.
5717. Philos. Aufsätze
5718. sqq.
5719. Kl. Schrift.
5720. Phaedo
5721. Verify your quotations,
5722. Journ. of Phil.
5723. figures four cubits high
5724. four animal figures,
5725. ζῷα τετραπήχη
5726.  
	
5727. And Simon, in addition to the money before paid to him towards another servant, shall either have a servant purchased for him or receive a further sum of money. And Tycho, Philo, Olympius and his child shall have their freedom when my daughter is married. None of 
5728.  
	
5729. and if she chooses to remain at Chalcis, the lodge by the garden, if in Stagira, my father’s house. Whichever of these two houses she chooses, the executors shall furnish with such furniture as they think proper and as Herpyllis herself may approve. Nicanor shall take charge of the boy Myrmex, that he be taken to his own friends in a manner worthy of me with the property of his which we received. Ambracis shall be given her freedom, and on my daughter’s marriage shall receive 500 drachmas and the maid whom she now has. And to Thale shall be given, in addition to the maid whom she has and who was bought, a thousand drachmas and a maid. 
5730.  
	
5731. And if Theophrastus is willing to live with her, he shall have the same rights as Nicanor. Otherwise the executors in consultation with Antipater shall administer as regards the daughter and the boy as seems to them to be best. The executors and Nicanor, in memory of me and of the steady affection which Herpyllis has borne towards me, shall take care of her in every other respect and, if she desires to be married, shall see that she be given to one not unworthy; and besides what she has already received they shall give her a talent of silver out of the estate and three handmaids whomsoever she shall choose besides the maid she has at present and the man-servant Pyrrhaeus; 
5732.  

5733. but, until Nicanor shall arrive, Aristomenes, Timarchus, Hipparchus, Dioteles and (if he consent and if circumstances permit him) Theophrastus shall take charge as well of Herpyllis and the children as of the property. And when the girl shall be grown up she shall be given in marriage to Nicanor; but if anything happen to the girl (which heaven forbid and no such thing will happen) before her marriage, or when she is married but before there are children, Nicanor shall have full powers, both with regard to the child and with regard to everything else, to administer in a manner worthy both of himself and of us. Nicanor shall take charge of the girl and of the boy Nicomachus as he shall think fit in all that concerns them as if he were father and brother. And if anything should happen to Nicanor (which heaven forbid!) either before he marries the girl, or 
5734.  

5735. All will be well; but, in case anything should happen, Aristotle has made these dispositions. Antipater is to be executor in all matters and in general; 
5736. Such then was the life of the philosopher. I have also come across his will, which is worded thus:
5737. Theocritus of Chios, according to Ambryon in his 
5738. No, nor yet Aristotle’s painful futility.
5739. Il.
5740. Cf.
5741. Frag. 36 D.
5742. To Hermias the eunuch, the slave withal of Eubulus, an empty monument was raised by empty-witted Aristotle, who by constraint of a lawless appetite chose to dwell at the mouth of the Borborus [muddy stream] rather than in the Academy.
5743. Anth. Plan.
5744. On Theocritus
5745.  

5746. In the archonship of Pythodotus, in the second year of the 109th Olympiad,
5747. No doubt Anaximenes of Lampsacus (
5748. Rhetorica ad Alexandrum
5749. cf. supra
5750. 322-321 b.c.
5751. 335-334 b.c.
5752. 342-341 b.c.
5753.  
	
5754. According to Apollodorus in his 
5755. 347-346 b.c.
5756. 345-344 b.c.
5757. 384-383 b.c.
5758. Chronology
5759. Favorinus in his 
5760. Pear upon pear grows old and fig upon fig.
5761. There must have been a chapter in Favorinus dealing with 
5762. inventions.
5763. Hom. 
5764. Od.
5765. Miscellaneous History
5766.  

5767. There is, too, something of my own upon the philosopher which I will quote
5768. Eurymedon, the priest of Deo’s mysteries, was once about to indict Aristotle for impiety, but he, by a draught of poison, escaped prosecution. This then was an easy way of vanquishing unjust calumnies.
5769. Anth. Pal.
5770. And yearning after thee came Achilles and Ajax to the house of Hades, and for the sake of thy dear form the nursling of Atarneus too was bereft of the light of the sun. Therefore shall his deeds be sung, and the Muses, the daughters of Memory, shall make him immortal, exalting the majesty of Zeus, guardian of strangers, and the grace of lasting friendship.
5771.  

5772. 

5773. O virtue, toilsome for the generation of mortals to achieve, the fairest prize that life can win, for thy beauty, O virgin, it were a doom glorious in Hellas even to die and to endure fierce, untiring labours. Such courage dost thou implant in the mind, imperishable, better than gold, dearer than parents or soft-eyed sleep. For thy sake Heracles, son of Zeus, and the sons of Leda endured much in the tasks whereby they pursued thy might. 
5774.  

5775. The hymn in question runs as follows:
5776. At Chalcis he died, according to Eumelus in the 
5777. Histories,
5778. as well as the following inscription for his statue at Delphi
5779. This man in violation of the hallowed law of the immortals was unrighteously slain by the king of the bow-bearing Persians, who overcame him, not openly with a spear in murderous combat, but by treachery with the aid of one in whom he trusted.
5780. Anth. Plan.
5781.  

5782. To return to Aristotle: he came to Athens, was head of his school for thirteen years, and then withdrew to Chalcis because he was indicted for impiety by Eurymedon the hierophant, or, according to Favorinus
5783. Miscellaneous History,
5784. As in ii. 78, iii. 19 and v. 77, Favorinus is curious to state the names of the accusers of philosophers put upon trial.
5785. But when Callisthenes talked with too much freedom to the king and disregarded his own advice, Aristotle is said to have rebuked him by citing the line
5786. Short-lived, I ween, wilt thou be, my child, by what thou sayest.
5787. Hom. 
5788. Il.
5789.  

5790. and married her with his consent, and in an excess of delight sacrificed to a weak woman as the Athenians did to Demeter of Eleusis
5791. This story comes ultimately from Lyco the Pythagorean; 
5792. ὑπερχαίρων
5793. φησὶ γὰρ θύειν Ἀριστοτέλην θυσίαν τετελευτηκυίᾳ τῇ γυναικὶ τοιαύτην ὁποίαν Ἀθηναῖοι τῇ Δήμητρι.
5794. Praep. Ev.
5795. Cf.
5796. cf.
5797.  

5798. In time the circle about him grew larger; he then sat down to lecture, remarking
5799. On the Luxury of the Ancients
5800. Poets and Writers of the Same Name.
5801. It were base to keep silence and let Xenocrates
5802. Most authorities put Isocrates here in place of Xenocrates.
5803. Eur. 
5804. 2
5805. Philoct.
5806.  
	
5807. He seceded from the Academy while Plato was still alive. Hence the remark attributed to the latter: 
5808. Peripatetic.
5809. Lives
5810. V.H.
5811. Cf.
5812. Aristotle spurns me, as colts kick out at the mother who bore them.
5813.  

5814. Aristotle, son of Nicomachus and Phaestis, was a native of Stagira. His father, Nicomachus, as Hermippus relates in his book 
5815. On Lives
5816. On Aristotle
5817. Chapter 1. ARISTOTLE (384-322 B.C.)
5818. BOOK V
5819.  

5820.  

5821.  

5822. Having thus reviewed the Academics who derived from Plato, we will now pass on to the Peripatetics, who also derived from Plato. They begin with Aristotle.
5823. The Academics in general are assailed by Timon in the line:

5824. The prolixity of the Academics unseasoned by salt.
5825. Clitomachus was a Carthaginian, his real name being Hasdrubal, and he taught philosophy at Carthage in his native tongue. He had reached his fortieth year when he went to Athens and became a pupil of Carneades. And Carneades, recognizing his industry, caused him to be educated and took part in training him. And to such lengths did his diligence go that he composed more than four hundred treatises. He succeeded Carneades in the headship of the school, and by his writings did much to elucidate his opinions. He was eminently well acquainted with the three sects—the Academy, the Peripatetics, and the Stoics.
5826. Chapter 10. CLITOMACHUS (Head of the Academy from 129 B.C.)
5827.  

5828.  

5829. There was another Carneades, a frigid elegiac poet.
5830. He had many other disciples, but the most illustrious of them all was Clitomachus, of whom we have next to speak.
5831. It is said that his eyes went blind at night without 
5832. read.
5833. Then,
5834. Here it is.
5835. Nature which holds this frame together will surely dissolve it.
5836. Give me a draught of honeyed wine.
5837. What? pray what?
5838. a draught to drink.
5839. Give me too,
5840.  
	
5841. According to Apollodorus in his 
5842. Why, Muse, oh why wouldst thou have me censure Carneades? For he is ignorant who knoweth not how he feared death. When wasting away with the worst of diseases, he would not find release. But when he heard that Antipater’s life was quenched by drinking a potion,
5843. Anth. Plan.
5844. 129-128 b.c.
5845. Chronology
5846.  

5847. He seems to have shown some want of courage in the face of death, repeating often the words, 
5848. A honeyed draught,
5849. What?
5850. Give it then to me also.
5851. Nature which framed this whole will also destroy it.
5852. Those on their part made proclamation, and these speedily assembled.
5853. Hom. 
5854. Il.
5855. Hither comes an old man of the sea, infallible, like to Mentor in person and in voice.
5856. Carneades applies two lines from the 
5857. Odyssey
5858.  
	
5859. His voice was extremely powerful, so that the keeper of the gymnasium sent to him and requested him not to shout so loud. To which he replied, 
5860. Miscellaneous History
5861. You have a regulator in your audience.
5862. Then give me something by which to regulate my voice.
5863.  
	
5864. Carneades, the son of Epicomus or (according to Alexander in his 
5865. Without Chrysippus where should I have been?
5866. Successions of Philosophers
5867. Chapter 9. CARNEADES (c. 213-129 B C.)
5868.  

5869.  

5870. He assumed the headship of the school in the fourth year of the 134th Olympiad,
5871. Of thee too, O Lacydes, I have heard a tale, that Bacchus seized thee and dragged thee on tip-toe
5872. Or 
5873. with trailing toes.
5874. Anth. Pal.
5875. July 241-June 240 b.c.
5876.  

5877. Lacydes used to lecture in the Academy, in the garden which had been laid out by King Attalus, and from him it derived its name of Lacydeum. He did what none of his predecessors had ever done; in his lifetime he handed over the school to Telecles and Evander, both of Phocaea. Evander was succeeded by Hegesinus of Pergamum, and he again by Carneades. A good saying is attributed to Lacydes. When Attalus sent for him, he is said to have remarked that statues are best seen from a distance. He stadied geometry late, and some one said to him, 
5878. Nay, is it not even yet the proper time?
5879. Is this a proper time?
5880.  

5881. Lacydes, son of Alexander, was a native of Cyrene He was the founder of the New Academy and the successor of Arcesilaus: a man of very serious character who found numerous admirers; industrious from his youth up and, though poor, of pleasant manners and pleasant conversation. A most amusing story is told of his housekeeping. Whenever he brought anything out of the store-room, he would seal the door up again and throw his signet-ring inside through the opening, to ensure that nothing laid up there should be stolen or carried off. So soon, then, as his rogues of servants got to know this, they broke the seal and carried off what they pleased, afterwards throwing the ring in the same way through 
5882. Chapter 8. LACYDES (Head of the Academy c. 242-216 B.C.)
5883.  

5884.  

5885. Ten men have borne the name of Bion: (1) the contemporary of Pherecydes of Syria, to whom are assigned two books in the Ionic dialect; he was of Proconnesus; (2) a Syracusan, who wrote rhetorical handbooks; (3) our philosopher; (4) a follower of Democritus and mathematician of Abdera, who wrote both in Attic and in Ionic: he was the first to affirm that there are places where the night lasts for six months and the day for six months
5886. Possibly Pytheas of Massilia in his 
5887. Northern Voyage
5888.  

5889. but he cheerfully allowed an old woman to put a charm round his neck, and in full faith bound his arms with leather and placed the rhamnus and the laurel-branch over the door, being ready to submit to anything sooner than die. Fool for wishing that the divine favour might be purchased at a certain price, as if the gods existed just when Bion chose to recognize them! It was then with vain wisdom that, when the driveller was all ashes, he stretched out his hand and said 
5890. Hail, Pluto, hail!
5891.  

5892. who often mocked at mortals for sacrificing to deities, not only over hearth and high altars and table, with sweet savour and fat and incense did he gladden the nostrils of the gods; nor was he content to say 
5893. I have sinned, forgive the past,
5894.  

5895. We hear that Bion, to whom the Scythian land of Borysthenes gave birth, denied that the gods really exist. Had he persisted in holding this opinion, it would have been right to say, 
5896. He thinks as he pleases: wrongly, to be sure, but still he does think so.
5897.  
	
5898. Even so he died, and in these lines
5899. Anth. Plan.
5900. For instance, Betion, one of his intimates, is said once to have addressed Menedemus in these words: 
5901. Miscellaneous History
5902. For my part, Menedemus, I pass the night with Bion, and I don’t think I am any the worse for it.
5903.  

5904. And in general he made sport of music and geometry. He lived extravagantly, and for this reason he would move from one city to another, sometimes contriving to make a great show. Thus at Rhodes he persuaded the sailors to put on students’ garb and follow in his train. And when, attended by them, he made his way into the gymnasium, all eyes were fixed on him. It was his custom also to adopt certain young men for the gratification of his appetite and in order that he might be protected by their goodwill.
5905. friends share in common.
5906. See, however, 
5907. supra
5908.  

5909. For little else was needed to convert him to the doctrine of entire insensibility. 
5910. O gentle Archytas, musician-born, blessed in thine own conceit, most skilled of men to stir the bass of strife.
5911. Il.
5912. πάντων ἐκπαγλότατʼ ἀνδρῶν
5913. ὦ μάκαρ Ἀτρεΐδη, μοιρηγενές, ὀλβιόδαιμον.
5914. Il.
5915. Cf.
5916.  

5917. Bion at the outset used to deprecate the Academic doctrines,
5918. preferred
5919. had
5920. προῄρητο
5921. i.e.
5922. Prudence, he said, excels the other virtues as much as sight excels the other senses. He used to say that we ought not to heap reproaches on old age, seeing that, as he said, we all hope to reach it. To a slanderer who showed a grave face his words were, 
5923. It cows a man, however bold his heart.
5924. Eur. 
5925. Hipp.
5926. I don’t know whether you have met with ill luck, or your neighbour with good.
5927.  

5928. He used to say that those in Hades would be more severely punished if the vessels in which they drew water were whole instead of being pierced with 
5929. we are courageous, but it is only in old age that prudence is at its height.
5930. When we are young,
5931. He has not acquired a fortune; the fortune has acquired him.
5932. unless I am discovered.
5933. And I too,
5934. We are lost if we are discovered,
5935. I will satisfy your demand, if you will only get others to plead your cause and stay away yourself.
5936.  

5937. He used repeatedly to say that to grant favours to another was preferable to enjoying the favours of others. For the latter means ruin to both body and soul. He even abused Socrates, declaring that, if he felt desire for Alcibiades and abstained, he was a fool; if he did not, his conduct was in no way remarkable. The road to Hades, he used to say, was easy to travel; at any rate men passed away with their eyes shut. He said in censure of Alcibiades that in his boyhood he drew away the husbands from their wives, and as a young man the wives from their husbands. When the Athenians were absorbed in the practice of rhetoric, he taught philosophy at Rhodes. To some one who found fault with him for this he replied, 
5938. How can I sell barley when what I brought to market is wheat?
5939.  

5940. Being once asked who suffers most from anxiety, he 
5941. The earth swallowed Amphiaraus, but you have swallowed your land.
5942. Cf. infra
5943. If the wife you marry be ugly, she will be your bane; if beautiful, you will not keep her to yourself.
5944. He who is ambitious of the greatest prosperity.
5945.  

5946. In truth Bion was in other respects a shifty character, a subtle sophist, and one who had given the enemies of philosophy many an occasion to blaspheme, while in certain respects he was even pompous and able to indulge in arrogance. He left very many memoirs, and also sayings of useful application. For example, when he was reproached for not paying court to a youth, his excuse was, 
5947. You can’t get hold of a soft cheese with a hook.
5948. And I burnt his books, scraped everything together, came to Athens and turned philosopher.

5949. This is the stock and this the blood from which I boast to have sprung.
5950. Hom. 
5951. Il.
5952.  

5953. Bion was by birth a citizen of Borysthenes [Olbia]; who his parents were, and what his circumstances before he took to philosophy, he himself told 
5954. a native of Borysthenes, with no face to show, but only the writing on his face, a token of his master’s severity. My mother was such as a man like my father would marry, from a brothel. Afterwards my father, who had cheated the revenue in some way, was sold with all his family. And I, then a not ungraceful youngster, was bought by a certain rhetorician, who on his death left me all he had. 
5955. My father was a freedman, who wiped his nose on his sleeve
5956. Who among men, and whence, are you? What is your city and your parents?
5957. Hom. 
5958. Od.
5959. Chapter 7. BION (third century B.C.)
5960.  

5961.  

5962. According to Apollodorus in his 
5963. 300-296 b.c.
5964. Chronology
5965. Three other men have borne the name of Arcesilaus: a poet of the Old Comedy, another poet who wrote elegies, and a sculptor besides, on whom Simonides composed this epigram
5966. This is a statue of Artemis and its cost two hundred Parian drachmas, which bear a goat for their device. It was made by Arcesilaus, the worthy son of Aristodicus, well practised in the arts of Athena.
5967. Anth. Plan.
5968. I have written upon him as follows
5969. Why, pray, Arcesilaus, didst thou quaff so unsparingly unmixed wine as to go out of thy mind? I pity thee not so much for thy death as because thou didst insult the Muses by immoderate potations.
5970. Anth. Pal.
5971.  

5972. He died, according to Hermippus, through drinking too freely of unmixed wine which affected his reason; he was already seventy-five and regarded by the Athenians with unparalleled good-will.
5973. I have given Diogenes my will to be conveyed to you. For, owing to my frequent illnesses and the weak state of my body, I decided to make a will, in order that, if anything untoward should happen, you, who have been so devotedly attached to me, should not suffer by my decease. You are the most deserving of all those in this place to be entrusted with the will, on the score both of age and of relationship to me. Remember then that I have reposed the most absolute confidence in you, and strive to 
5974.  

5975. Arcesilaus to Thaumasias greeting.
5976. At last, being near his end, he left all his property to his brother Pylades, because, unknown to Moereas, he had taken him to Chios and thence brought him to Athens. In all his life he never married nor had any children. He made three wills: the first he left at Eretria in the charge of Amphicritus, the second at Athens in the charge of certain friends, while the third he dispatched to his home to Thaumasias, one of his relatives, with the request that he would keep it safe. To this man he also wrote as follows:
5977. Another pleasant story told of him is this. Some one had inquired why it was that pupils from all the other schools went over to Epicurus, but converts were never made from the Epicureans: 
5978. Because men may become eunuchs, but a eunuch never becomes a man,
5979.  

5980. And yet for all that he was modest enough to 
5981. So saying, he plunged into the surrounding crowd. And they were amazed at him, like chaffinches about an owl, pointing him out as vain, because he was a flatterer of the mob. And why, insignificant thing that you are, do you puff yourself out like a simpleton?
5982. Frag. 34 D. 
5983. Il.
5984. Cf.
5985. There he had always shunned discussion over the wine; and when Aridices, proposing a certain question, requested him to speak upon it, he replied, 
5986. Cf. infra
5987. The peculiar province of philosophy is just this, to know that there is a time for all things.
5988.  

5989. He is said to have been particularly enamoured of Demetrius who sailed to Cyrene, and of Cleochares of Myrlea; of him the story is told that, when a band of revellers came to the door, he told them that for his part he was willing to admit them but that Cleochares would not let him. This same youth had amongst his admirers Demochares the son of Laches, and Pythocles the son of Bugelus, and once when Arcesilaus had caught them, with great forbearance he ordered them off. For all this he was assailed and ridiculed by the critics abovementioned, as a friend of the mob who courted popularity. The most virulent attacks were made upon him in the circle of Hieronymus the Peripatetic,
5990. παρὰ Ἱερωνύμῳ τῷ Π.
5991. οἱ περὶ Ἱερώνυμον τὸν Περιπατητικόν
5992.  

5993. Once indeed, when at Athens, he stopped too long in the Piraeus, discussing themes, out of friendship for Hierocles, and for this he was censured by certain persons.
5994. It has been suggested that the sense would be improved if 
5995. ἑκάστοτε.
5996. πολλῶν δὲ καὶ τὸν Ἀντίγονον
5997. Πειραιεῖ
5998. πολιτισμὸν ἐκτοπίζων
5999. καὶ πρὸς τὰς θέσεις λέγων
6000. πολιτισμὸν
6001. τὸν
6002. Ἀθήνησι
6003.  

6004. And whereas many persons courted Antigonus and went to meet him whenever he came to Athens, Arcesilaus remained at home, not wishing to thrust himself upon his acquaintance. He was on the best of terms with Hierocles, the commandant in Munichia and Piraeus, and at every festival would go down to see him. And though Hierocles joined in urging him to pay his respects to Antigonus, he was not prevailed upon, but, after going as far as the gates, turned back. And after the battle at sea,
6005. The reference may be to one of the naval victories gained by Antigonus over the Egyptian fleet towards the end of his reign, at Cos and again at Andros. See W. W. Tarn, 
6006. Antigonus Gonatas
6007.  

6008. Again, by introducing Archias the Arcadian to Eumenes, he caused him to be advanced to great dignity. And, as he was very liberal, caring very little for money, so he was the first to attend performances where seats were paid for, and he was above all eager to go to those of Archecrates and Callicrates, for which the fee was a gold piece. And he helped many people and collected subscriptions for them. Some one once borrowed his silver plate in order to entertain friends and never brought it back, but Arcesilaus did not ask him for it and pretended it had not been borrowed. Another version of the story is that he lent it on purpose, and, when it was returned, made the borrower a present of it because he was poor. He had property in Pitane from which his brother Pylades sent him supplies. Furthermore, Eumenes, 
6009.  

6010. Very fertile in invention, he could meet objection acutely or bring the course of discussion back to the point at issue, and fit it to every occasion. In persuasiveness he had no equal, and this all the more drew pupils to the school, although they were in terror of his pungent wit. But they willingly put up with that; for his goodness was extraordinary, and he inspired his pupils with hopes. He showed the greatest generosity in private life, being ever ready to confer benefits, yet most modestly anxious to conceal the favour. For instance, he once called upon Ctesibius when he was ill and, seeing in what straits he was, quietly put a purse under his pillow. He, when he found it, said, 
6011. This is the joke of Arcesilaus.
6012.  

6013. A certain dialectic, a follower of Alexinus, was unable to repeat properly some argument of his teacher, whereupon Arcesilaus reminded him of the story of Philoxenus and the brickmakers. He found them singing some of his melodies out of tune; so he retaliated by trampling on the bricks they were making, saying, 
6014. The use of these phrases was inconsistent with the suspension of judgement professed by Arcesilaus.
6015. will not assent to this.
6016. So-and-so
6017. I assert,
6018. If you spoil my work, I’ll spoil yours.
6019.  
	
6020. Be sure the hen-bird knows not from what quarter the wind blows until she looks for a new brood in the nest.
6021. τόκος
6022. Hist. An.
6023. Aves
6024. passage of the winds (through her body),
6025. διέξοδοι
6026. Fragments
6027. ad loc.
6028. Men pay little heed to obvious facts except when their own interests are concerned.
6029. Nauck, 
6030. 2
6031. T.G.F.
6032. Oenomaus
6033. Right ill to live with are the sons of slaves.
6034. Nauck, 
6035. 2
6036. T.G.F.
6037. Woman, why talk so harshly, not as thou art wont?
6038. Nauck, 
6039. Antiq. v. Kar.
6040. cf.
6041. Adesp.
6042. 2
6043. T.G.F.
6044. Queen, may I speak, or must I silence keep?
6045.  

6046. This is why Timon speaks of him again as follows:

6047. Nauck, 
6048. Adesp.
6049. 2
6050. T.G.F.
6051. What, not with one so handsome as you and so handsomely dressed?
6052. Then six inches and ten inches are all the same to you?
6053. Will no one beat him at a game of knuckle-bone?
6054. And mixing sound sense with wily cavils.
6055. Or possibly with Wachsmuth: 
6056. mixing jest in wily fashion (
6057. αἱμυλίως
6058.  

6059. He was highly axiomatic and concise, and in his discourse fond of distinguishing the meaning of terms. He was satirical enough, and outspoken. 
6060. Some represent him as emulous of Pyrrho as well. He was devoted to dialectic and adopted the methods 
6061. I shall swim to Pyrrho and to crooked Diodorus.
6062. Having the lead of Menedemus at his heart, he will run either to that mass of flesh, Pyrrho, or to Diodorus.
6063. Od.
6064. Cf.
6065. Plato the head of him, Pyrrho the tail, midway Diodorus.
6066. A parody of Homer, 
6067. Il.
6068.  

6069. He also attended the lectures of the geometer Hipponicus, at whom he pointed a jest as one who was in all besides a listless, yawning sluggard but yet proficient in his subject. 
6070. If this be so, the study of the poet Ion ( § 31) must have remained unpublished.
6071. must have flown into his mouth while it was agape.
6072. Geometry,
6073.  

6074. He esteemed Homer above all the poets and would always read a passage from him before going to sleep. And in the morning he would say, whenever he wanted to read Homer, that he would pay a visit to his dear love. Pindar too he declared matchless for imparting fullness of diction and for affording a copious store of words and phrases. And in his youth he made a special study of Ion.
6075. Far, far away are Phrygia and sacred Thyatira, thy native land, Menodorus, son of Cadanus. But to unspeakable Acheron the ways are equal, from whatever place they be measured, as the proverb saith. To thee Eugamus raised this far-seen monument, for thou wert dearest to him of all who for him toiled.
6076.  

6077. After that they lived together. Whereupon Theophrastus, nettled at his loss, is said to have remarked, 
6078. Anth. Plan.
6079. Pergamos, not famous in arms alone, is often celebrated for its steeds in divine Pisa. And if a mortal may make bold to utter the will of heaven, it will be much more sung by bards in days to come.
6080. Anth. Plan.
6081. What a quick-witted and ready pupil has left my school!
6082.  

6083. At first, before he left Pitane for Athens, he was a pupil of the mathematician Autolycus, his fellow-countryman, and with him he also travelled to Sardis. Next he studied under Xanthus, the musician, of Athens; then he was a pupil of Theophrastus. Lastly, he crossed over to the Academy and joined Crantor. For while his brother Moereas, who has already been mentioned, wanted to make him a rhetorician, he was himself devoted to philosophy, and Crantor, being enamoured of him, cited the line from the 
6084. Take me, stranger, whether for maidservant or for wife.
6085. Ib.
6086. O maiden, if I save thee, wilt thou be grateful to me?
6087. Nauck, 
6088. Eur.
6089. 2
6090. T.G.F.
6091. Andromeda
6092.  
	
6093. Arcesilaus, the son of Seuthes, according to Apollodorus in the third book of his 
6094. Chronology
6095. Chapter 6. ARCESILAUS (c. 318-242 B.C.)
6096.  

6097.  

6098. He was also clever at inventing terms. For instance, he said of a tragic player’s voice that it was unpolished and unpeeled. And of a certain poet that his verses abounded in miserliness. And that the disquisitions of Theophrastus were written with an oyster-shell. His most highly esteemed work is the treatise 
6099. The worst of maladies overwhelmed you, Crantor, and thus did you descend the black abyss of Pluto. While you fare well even in the world below, the Academy and your country of Soli are bereft of your discourses.
6100. Anth. Plan.
6101. Ac. Pr.
6102. Legimus omnes Crantoris, veteris Academici, de luctu; est enim non magnus, verum aureolus et, ut Tuberoni Panaetius praecipit, ad verbum ediscendus libellus
6103. On Grief.
6104. or art thou the child of wise Cypris, or of Earth, or of the Winds? So many are the goods and ills thou devisest for men in thy wanderings. Therefore hast thou a body of double form.
6105.  

6106. Crantor admired Homer and Euripides above all other poets; it is hard, he said, at once to write tragedy and to stir the emotions in the language of everyday life. And he would quote the line from the story of Bellerophon
6107. My mind is in doubt, since thy birth is disputed, whether I am to call thee, Love, the first of the immortal gods, the eldest of all the children whom old Erebus and queenly Night brought to birth in the depths beneath wide Ocean; 
6108. Anth. Plan.
6109. Alas! But why Alas? We have suffered the lot of mortals.
6110. Nauck, 
6111. Eur.
6112. 2
6113. T.G.F.
6114.  

6115. However, when he recovered, he continued to attend Polemo’s lectures, and for this he was universally praised. He is also said to have left Arcesilaus his property, to the value of twelve talents. And when asked by him where he wished to be buried, he answered
6116. Pleasing to men, more pleasing to the Muses, lived Crantor, and never saw old age. Receive, O earth, the hallowed dead; gently may he live and thrive even in the world below.
6117. Anth. Plan.
6118. Sweet in some nook of native soil to rest.
6119. Nauck, 
6120. Adesp.
6121. 2
6122. T.G.F.
6123.  

6124. Crantor of Soli, though he was much esteemed in his native country, left it for Athens and attended the lectures of Xenocrates at the same time as Polemo. He left memoirs extending to 30,000 lines, some of which are by some critics attributed to Arcesilaus. He is said to have been asked what it was in Polemo that attracted him, and to have 
6125. The fact that I never heard him raise or lower his voice in speaking.
6126. Chapter 5. CRANTOR (Perhaps about 340-290 B.C.)
6127.  

6128.  
	
6129. There have been ten men who bore the name of Crates: (1) the poet of the Old Comedy; (2) a rhetorician of Tralles, a pupil of Isocrates; (3) a sapper and miner who accompanied Alexander; (4) the Cynic, of whom more hereafter; (5) a Peripatetic philosopher; (6) the Academic philosopher described above; (7) a grammarian of Malos; (8) the author of a geometrical work; (9) a composer of epigrams; (10) an Academic philosopher of Tarsus.
6130. According to Apollodorus in the third book of his 
6131. Chronology
6132.  

6133. Hence Arcesilaus, who had quitted Theophrastus and gone over to their school, said of them that they were gods or a remnant of the Golden Age. They did not side with the popular party, but were such as Dionysodorus the flute-player is said to have claimed to be, when he boasted that no one ever heard his melodies, as those of Ismenias were heard, either on shipboard or at the fountain. According to Antigonus, their common table was in the house of Crantor; and these two and Arcesilaus lived in harmony together. Arcesilaus and Crantor shared the same house, while Polemo and Crates lived with 
6134.  

6135. Crates, whose father was Antigenes, was an Athenian belonging to the deme of Thria. He was a pupil and at the same time a favourite of Polemo, whom he succeeded in the headship of the school. The two were so much attached to each other that they not only shared the same pursuits in life but grew more and more alike to their latest breath, and, dying, shared the same tomb. Hence Antagoras, writing of both, employed this figure
6136. Passing stranger, say that in this tomb rest godlike Crates and Polemo, men magnanimous in concord, from whose inspired lips flowed sacred speech, and whose pure life of wisdom, in accordance with unswerving tenets, decked them for a bright immortality.
6137. Anth. Pal.
6138. Chapter 4. CRATES (of Athens) 
6139.  

6140.   

6141. He died at an advanced age of gradual decay, leaving behind him a considerable number of works. I have composed the following epigram upon him
6142. Dost thou not hear? We have buried Polemo, laid here by that fatal scourge of wasted strength. Yet not Polemo, 
6143. Anth. Plan.
6144. He loved Sophocles, particularly in those passages where it seemed as if, in the phrase of the comic poet,

6145. Nor must, nor blended vintage, but true Pramnian.
6146. Meineke, 
6147. C.G.F.
6148. A stout Molossian mastiff lent him aid,
6149.   

6150. which, as the same author says, is 
6151. On the Luxury of the Ancients
6152. Cf. supra
6153. Frag. 180 Dind.
6154. strong seasoning for meat when it is high.
6155.   

6156. He was, then, refined and generous, and would beg to be excused, in the words of Aristophanes about Euripides, the 
6157. acid, pungent style,
6158. For instance, Nicostratus, who was nicknamed Clytemnestra, was once reading to him and Crates something from Homer; and, while Crates was deeply affected, he was no more moved than if he had not heard him. Altogether he was a man such as Melanthius the painter describes in his work 
6159. On Painting.
6160.   
	
6161. Antigonus of Carystus in his 
6162. Cf. infra
6163. Biographies
6164.  

6165. Polemo, the son of Philostratus, was an Athenian who belonged to the deme of Oea. In his youth he was so profligate and dissipated that he actually carried about with him money to procure the immediate gratification of his desires, and would even keep sums concealed in lanes and alleys.
6166. 316-312 b.c.
6167. Μέθη.
6168. Bis accusatus
6169. Cf.
6170. Chapter 3. POLEMO (Head of the Academy from 314 to c. 276 B.C.)
6171.  

6172.   

6173. There have been six other men named Xenocrates: (1) a tactician in very ancient times; (2) the kinsman and fellow-citizen of the philosopher: a speech by him is extant entitled the Arsinoëtic, treating of a certain deceased Arsinoë
6174. In the enumeration of the first three one has accidentally dropped out.
6175. Upon him I have expressed myself as follows
6176. Xenocrates, that type of perfect manliness, stumbled over a vessel of bronze and broke his head, and, with a loud cry, expired.
6177. Anth. Pal.
6178.   

6179. Such was his character, and yet, when he was unable to pay the tax levied on resident aliens, the Athenians put him up for sale. And Demetrius of Phalerum purchased him, thereby making twofold restitution, to Xenocrates of his liberty, and to the Athenians of their tax. This we learn from Myronianus of Amastris in the first book of his 
6180. 339-338 b.c.
6181. Chapters on Historical Parallels.
6182. These works comprise in all 224,239 lines.
6183. On Geometry, two books.
6184. To Hephaestion.
6185. To Arybas.
6186. Elementary Principles of Monarchy, in four books, dedicated to Alexander.
6187.   

6188. On Astronomy, six books.
6189. On Dimensions, one book.
6190. Theory of Numbers, one book.
6191. On Numbers, one book.
6192. Contraries, one book.
6193. Commentaries, one book.
6194. On Geometers, five books.
6195. Two other books entitled Things relating to the Intellect.
6196. Six books concerned with Mathematics.
6197. Nine books on Ratiocination.
6198. After this come fifteen books, and then sixteen books of Studies relating to Style.
6199. The Study of Dialectic, in fourteen books, 12,740 lines.
6200. Theses, in twenty books, 30,000 lines.
6201. Divisions, eight books.
6202. Solutions, two books.
6203. Things Pythagorean, one book.
6204. On Genera and Species, one book.
6205. Summary, one book.
6206. Physical Lectures, six books.
6207. Solution of Logical Problems, ten books.
6208. Things relating to the Understanding, eight books.
6209. On the Good, one book.
6210. Archedemus or Concerning Justice, one book.
6211. On the Writings of Parmenides, one book.
6212. On Philosophy, one book.
6213. On Cognition, one book.
6214. The Statesman, one book.
6215. On Science, one book.
6216. On the Soul, two books.
6217. On the Gods, two books.
6218. On Art, one book.
6219.   

6220. On Ideas, one book.
6221. On the One, one book.
6222. On Bravery, one book.
6223. On Life, one book.
6224. On Pleasure, two books.
6225. On Forms, one book.
6226. On Virtue, two books.
6227. On Justice, one book.
6228. On Students, two books.
6229. On Concord, one book.
6230. On Modes of Life, one book.
6231. On the Emotions, one book.
6232. On Fate, one book.
6233. On Being, one book.
6234. That Virtue can be taught, one book.
6235. On Holiness, one book.
6236. On the State, one book.
6237. On the Influence of Law, one book.
6238. On Temperance, one book.
6239. The Householder, one book.
6240. On Prudence, two books.
6241. Callicles, one book.
6242. On Falsehood, one book.
6243. On Memory, one book.
6244. On Writing, one book.
6245. On Happiness, two books.
6246. On that which is Contrary, two books.
6247. On Equity, one book.
6248. On Friendship, two books.
6249. On the Voluntary, one book.
6250. On Death, one book.
6251. Supposed by Marsilius Ficinus to be the extant dialogue 
6252. cf. supra
6253. Axiochus
6254. On Freedom, one book.
6255. On Utility, one book.
6256. On Continence, one book.
6257. On the Child, one book.
6258.   

6259. He left a very large number of treatises, poems and addresses, of which I append a list:

6260. On the Indeterminate, one book.
6261. The Arcadian, one book.
6262. On Wealth, one book.
6263. On Wisdom, six books.
6264. On Nature, six books.
6265. When Dionysius told Plato that he would lose his head, Xenocrates, who was present, pointed to his own and added, 
6266. No man shall touch it till he cut off mine.
6267.   

6268. When a little sparrow was pursued by a hawk and rushed into his bosom, he stroked it and let it go, declaring that a suppliant must not be betrayed. When bantered by Bion, he said he would make no reply. For neither, said he, does tragedy deign to answer the banter of comedy. To some one who had never learnt either music or geometry or astronomy, but nevertheless wished to attend his lectures, Xenocrates said, 
6269. It is not to me that you come for the carding of a fleece.
6270. Go your ways, for you offer philosophy nothing to lay hold of.
6271.   

6272. Hence, when the envoys returned to Athens, they complained that Xenocrates had accompanied them without rendering any service. Thereupon the people were ready to fine him. But when he told them that now more than ever they ought to consider the interests of the state—
6273. O Circe! what righteous man would have the heart to taste meat and drink ere he had redeemed his company and beheld them face to face?
6274. Hom. 
6275. Od.
6276. 322 b.c.
6277. Philip knew 
6278. for,
6279.   
	
6280. Furthermore, he was extremely independent; at all events, when Alexander sent him a large sum of money, he took three thousand Attic drachmas and sent back the rest to Alexander, whose needs, he said, were greater than his own, because he had a greater number of people to keep. Again, he would not accept the present sent him by Antipater, as Myronianus attests in his 
6281. Parallels.
6282.   

6283. And that once the notorious Phryne tried to make his acquaintance and, as if she were being chased by some people, took refuge under his roof; that he admitted her out of ordinary humanity and, there being but one small couch in the room, permitted her to share it with him, and at last, after 
6284.  

6285. Xenocrates, the son of Agathenor, was a native of Chalcedon. He was a pupil of Plato from his earliest youth; moreover he accompanied him on his journey to Sicily. He was naturally slow and clumsy. Hence Plato, comparing him to Aristotle, said, 
6286. Xenocrates, sacrifice to the Graces.
6287. See what an ass I am training and what a horse he has to run against.
6288. The one needed a spur, the other a bridle.
6289. Chapter 2. XENOCRATES (396-314 B.C.) (Head of the Academy 339-314 B.C.)
6290.  

6291.   

6292. There was another Speusippus, a physician of Alexandria, of the school of Herophilus.
6293. They comprise in all 43,475 lines. To him Timonides addresses his narrative in which he related the achievements of Dion and Bion.
6294. Memorabilia
6295. Nothing is known of any such Bion having taken part in the expedition of Dion against Syracuse. There may be an error in the text arising from dittography.
6296. 

6297. Arrangements of Commentaries.
6298. Definitions.
6299. Lysias.
6300. Mandrobolus.
6301. The Mathematician.
6302. On Legislation.
6303. Epistles to Dion, Dionysius and Philip.
6304. Eulogy of Plato.
6305. A Reply to the Anonymous Work.
6306. On Typical Genera and Species.
6307. Divisions and Hypotheses relating to the Resemblances.
6308. Dialogues on the Resemblances in Science, in ten books.
6309. Treatise on System, in one book.
6310. Memoirs, in the form of dialogues.
6311. Criticism of the Arts, each in one book.
6312. Aristippus,
6313.   

6314. He has left behind a vast store of memoirs and numerous dialogues, among them:

6315. A Reply to Gryllus,
6316. Of the Soul,
6317. The Citizen,
6318. Clinomachus or Lysias,
6319. Cephalus,
6320. A Reply to Cephalus,
6321. The Philosopher,
6322. On the Gods,
6323. On Friendship,
6324. On Philosophy,
6325. On Justice,
6326. On Pleasure, one book.
6327. On Wealth, one book.
6328. Aristippus the Cyrenaic.
6329. Plutarch in the Lives of Lysander and Sulla makes his malady to have been 
6330. Why, pray, are you in such sore need of him? For ten talents I will find you a more handsome bride.
6331. On Lives.
6332. Cf. supra
6333. morbus pedicularis.
6334.   

6335. When he was already crippled by paralysis, he sent a message to Xenocrates entreating him to come and take over the charge of the school.
6336. Had I not learnt that Speusippus would die thus, no one would have persuaded me to say that he was surely not of Plato’s blood; for else he would never have died in despair for a trivial cause.
6337. Anth. Pal.
6338. Nay, if you can endure to live in such a plight as this, I decline to return your greeting.
6339. The most trustworthy account of what happened when Xenocrates was elected is furnished by 
6340. sq.
6341. Index Academicus
6342. And according to Caeneus he was the first to divulge what Isocrates called the secrets of his art, and the first to devise the means by which fagots of firewood are rendered portable.
6343.   
	
6344. It was said that among those who attended his lectures were the two women who had been pupils of Plato, Lastheneia of Mantinea and Axiothea of Phlius. And at the time Dionysius in a letter says derisively, 
6345. Memorabilia
6346. Romance seems to have been busy with the life of Speusippus. Athenaeus, vii. 279 e, quotes from the same forged letter of Dionysius to Speusippus bringing similar charges.
6347. We may judge of your wisdom by the Arcadian girl who is your pupil. And, whereas Plato exempted from fees all who came to him, you 
6348.  

6349. The foregoing is the best account of Plato that we were able to compile after a diligent examination of the authorities. He was succeeded by Speusippus, an Athenian and son of Eurymedon, who belonged to the deme of Myrrhinus, and was the son of Plato’s sister Potone. He was head of the school for eight years beginning in the 108th Olympiad.
6350. 348-344 b.c.
6351. Chapter 1. SPEUSIPPUS (circa 407-339 B.C.) (Head of the Academy, 347-339 B.C.)
6352. BOOK IV
6353.  

6354.  

6355.   

6356. There was also another man named Plato, a philosopher of Rhodes, a pupil of Panaetius, as is stated by Seleucus the grammarian in his first book 
6357. On Philosophy
6358. For none of these gains by explanation. To those which are called relative belong all which stand in need of some explanation, as that which is greater than something or quicker than something, or more beautiful and the like. For the greater implies a less, and the quicker is quicker than something. Thus existing 
6359.   
	
6360. Of existing things some are absolute and some are called relative. Things said to exist absolutely are those which need nothing else to explain them, as man, horse, and all other animals. 
6361. If they are composed of similar parts, so that the whole does not differ from the part except in bulk, as water, gold and all that is fusible, and the like, then they are termed homogeneous. But whatever is composed of dissimilar parts, as a house and the like, is termed heterogeneous. Thus all things whatever are either divisible or indivisible, and of those which are divisible some are homogeneous, others heterogeneous in their parts.
6362.   

6363. Whatever exists is either divisible or indivisible. Of divisible things some are divisible into similar and others into dissimilar parts. Those things are indivisible which cannot be divided and are not compounded of elements, for example, the unit, the point and the musical note; whereas those which have constituent parts, for instance, syllables, concords in music, animals, water, gold, are divisible. 
6364. Vocal sound falls into two divisions according as it is animate or inanimate. The voice of living things is animate sound; notes of instruments and noises are inanimate. And of the animate voice part is articulate, part inarticulate, that of men being articulate speech, that of the animals inarticulate. Thus vocal sound is either animate or inanimate.
6365.   

6366. Counsel is divided under three heads. One is taken from past time, one from the future, and the third from the present. That from past time consists of examples; for instance, what the Lacedaemonians suffered through trusting others. Counsel drawn from the present is to show, for instance, that the walls are weak, the men cowards, and the supplies running short. Counsel from the future is. for instance, to urge that we should not wrong the embassies by suspicions, lest the fair fame of Hellas be stained. Thus counsel is derived from the past, the present and the future.
6367.  

6368. There are three kinds of goods, those which can be exclusively possessed, those which can be shared with others, and those which simply exist. To the first division, namely, those which can be exclusively possessed, belong such things as justice and health. To the next belong all those which, though they cannot be exclusively possessed, can be shared with others. Thus we cannot possess the absolute good, but we can participate in it. The third division includes those goods the existence of which is necessary, though we can neither possess them exclusively nor participate in them. The mere existence of worth and justice is a good; and these things cannot be shared or had in exclusive possession, but must simply exist. Of goods, then, some are possessed exclusively, some shared, and others merely subsist.
6369. Thus, of contraries, some are opposed as goods to evils, others as evils to evils, and others, as things which are neither good nor evil, are opposed to one another.
6370.   

6371. Contraries are divided into three species. For instance, we say that goods are contrary to evils, as justice to injustice, wisdom to folly, and the like. Again, evils are contrary to evils, prodigality is contrary to niggardliness, and to be unjustly tortured is the contrary of being justly tortured, and so with similar evils. Again, heavy is the contrary of light, 
6372. the second when the existing laws are not obeyed, and the third when there is no law at all. Thus the state is badly governed when the laws are bad or not obeyed, or lastly, when there is no law.
6373.   

6374. Disorder in a state has three forms. The first arises when the laws affecting citizens and strangers are alike bad, 
6375. Good order in the state falls under three heads. First, if the laws are good, we say that there is good government. Secondly, if the citizens obey the established laws, we also call this good government. Thirdly, if, without the aid of laws, the people manage their affairs well under the guidance of customs and institutions, we call this again good government. Thus three forms of good government may exist, (1) when the laws are good, (2) when the existing laws are obeyed, (3) when the people live under salutary customs and institutions.
6376.   

6377. Whatever is is either evil or good or indifferent. We call that evil which is capable of invariably doing harm; for 
6378.   

6379. Good is divided into four kinds. One is the possessor of virtue, whom we affirm to be individually good. Another is virtue itself and justice; these we affirm to be good. A third includes such things as food, suitable exercises and drugs. The fourth kind which we affirm to be good includes the arts of flute-playing, acting and the like. Thus there are four kinds of good: the possession of virtue; virtue itself; thirdly, food and beneficial exercises; lastly, flute-playing, acting, and the poetic art. 
6380.   

6381. There are three divisions of the arts and crafts. The first division consists of mining and forestry, which are productive arts. The second includes the smith’s and carpenter’s arts which transform material; for the smith makes weapons out of iron, and the carpenter transforms timber into flutes and lyres. The third division is that which uses what is thus made, as horsemanship employs bridles, the art of war employs weapons, and music flutes and the lyre. Thus of art there are three several species, those above-mentioned in the first, second and third place.
6382.   

6383. A man has a good reputation when he is well spoken of. A man has ample means when he is so equipped for the needs of life that he can afford to benefit his friends and discharge his public services with lavish display. If a man has all these things, he is completely happy. Thus of welfare or happiness one part is good counsel, another soundness of senses and bodily health, a third success, a fourth a good reputation, a fifth ample means.
6384. Now deliberating well is a result of education and of having experience of many things. Soundness of the senses depends upon the bodily organs: I mean, if one sees with his eyes, hears with his ears, and perceives with his nostrils and his mouth the appropriate objects, then such a condition is soundness of the senses. Success is attained when a man does what he aims at in the right way, as becomes a good man.
6385.   

6386. Welfare or happiness includes five parts. One part of it is good counsel, a second soundness of the senses and bodily health, a third success in one’s undertakings, a fourth a reputation with one’s fellow-men, a fifth ample means in money and in whatever else subserves the end of life. 
6387. Philanthropy is of three kinds. One is by way of salutations, as when certain people address every one they meet and, stretching out their hand, give him a hearty greeting; another mode is seen when one is given to assisting every one in distress; another mode of philanthropy is that which makes certain people fond of giving dinners. Thus philanthropy is shown either by a courteous address, or by conferring benefits, or by hospitality and the promotion of social intercourse.
6388.   

6389. Of power or ability there are four divisions. First, whatever we can do with the mind, namely calculate 
6390. Fourthly, matters are brought to an end by chance or accident, when they turn out otherwise than is expected. Thus the completion of things is due either to law, or to nature, or to art, or to chance.
6391.   

6392. There are four ways in which things are completed and brought to an end. The first is by legal enactment, when a decree is passed and this decree is confirmed by law. The second is in the course of nature, as the day, the year and the seasons are completed. The third is by the rules of art, say the builder’s art, for so a house is completed; and so it is with shipbuilding, whereby vessels are completed. 
6393. Those who train or heal, or who teach something valuable, confer benefit by means of knowledge. But when men enter a law-court and one appears as advocate for another and delivers an effective speech on his behalf, he is benefiting him by speech. Thus benefits are conferred by means either of money or of personal service, or of knowledge, or of speech.
6394.   
	
6395. Of conferring benefits there are four divisions. For it takes place either by pecuniary aid or by personal service, by means of knowledge or of speech. Pecuniary aid is given when one assists a man in need, so that he is relieved from all anxiety on the score of money. Personal service is given when men come up to those who are being beaten and rescue them. 
6396. To speak to the proper audience means this: in addressing persons older than yourself, the 
6397.  

6398. Successful speaking has four divisions. The first consists in speaking to the purpose, the next to the requisite length, the third before the proper audience, and the fourth at the proper moment. The things to the purpose are those which are likely to be expedient for speaker and hearer. The requisite length is that which is neither more nor less than enough. 
6399. A fifth kind of rhetoric is employed when a speaker speaks well of some one and proves him to be worthy and honourable; encomium is the name given to this kind. A sixth kind is that employed when the speaker shows some one to be unworthy; the name given to this is invective. Under rhetoric, then, are included encomium, invective, persuasion, dissuasion, accusation and defence.
6400.   

6401. There are six kinds of rhetoric. For when the speakers urge war or alliance with a neighbouring state, that species of rhetoric is called persuasion. But when they speak against making war or alliance, and urge their hearers to remain at peace, this kind of rhetoric is called dissuasion. A third kind is employed when a speaker asserts that he is wronged by some one whom he makes out to have caused him much mischief; accusation is the name applied to the kind here defined. The fourth kind of rhetoric is termed defence; here the speaker shows that he has done no wrong and that his conduct is in no respect abnormal; defence is the term applied in such a case. 
6402.   

6403. Now the magistrates in cities when elected by their fellow-citizens rule according to law. The natural rulers are the males, not only among men, but also among the other animals; for the males everywhere exert wide-reaching rule over the females. Rule according to custom is such authority as attendants exercise over children and teachers over their pupils. Hereditary rule is exemplified by that of the Lacedaemonian kings, for the office of king is confined to a certain family. And the same system is in force for the kingdom of Macedonia; for there too the office of king goes by birth. Others have 
6404.   

6405. Rule has five divisions, one that which is according to law, another according to nature, another according to custom, a fourth by birth, a fifth by force. 
6406. Of these prudence is the cause of right conduct, justice of just dealing in partnerships and commercial transactions. Bravery is the cause which makes a man not give way but stand his ground in alarms and perils. Temperance causes mastery over desires, so that we are never enslaved by any pleasure, but lead an orderly life. Thus virtue includes first prudence, next justice, thirdly bravery, and lastly temperance.
6407.   

6408. Of perfect virtue there are four species: prudence, justice, bravery and temperance. 
6409. The soul has three divisions. One part of it is rational, another appetitive, and a third irascible. Of these the rational part is the cause of purpose, reflection, understanding and the like. The appetitive 
6410.   

6411. Beauty has three divisions. The first is the object of praise, as of form fair to see. Another is serviceable; thus an instrument, a house and the like are beautiful for use. Other things again which relate to customs and pursuits and the like are beautiful because beneficial. Of beauty, then, one kind is matter for praise, another is for use, and another for the benefit it procures.
6412. The last division includes the man who is himself of a generous and high-minded spirit. He too is said to be noble. And this indeed is the highest form of nobility. Thus, of nobility, one kind depends on excellent ancestors, another on princely ancestors, a third on illustrious ancestors, while the fourth is due to the individual’s own beauty and worth.
6413.   

6414. Nobility has four divisions. First, when the ancestors are gentle and handsome and also just, their descendants are said to be noble. Secondly, when the ancestors have been princes or magistrates, their descendants are said to be noble. The third kind arises when the ancestors have been illustrious; for instance, through having held military command or through success in the national games. For then we call the descendants noble. 
6415. Music has three divisions. One employs the mouth alone, like singing. The second employs both the 
6416.   

6417. The second division is that which the rhetors employ in written compositions, whether composed for display or praise or blame, or for accusation. Hence this division is termed rhetorical. The third division of speech is that of private persons conversing with one another; this is called the mode of speech of ordinary life. Another division of speech is the language of those who converse by means of short questions and answers; this kind is called dialectical. The fifth division is the speech of craftsmen conversing about their own subjects; this is called technical language. Thus speech is either political, or rhetorical, or that of ordinary conversation, or dialectical, or technical.
6418.   

6419. There are five kinds of speech, of which one is that which politicians employ in the assemblies; this is called political speech. 
6420. There are two divisions of law, the one written and the other unwritten. Written law is that under which we live in different cities, but that which has arisen out of custom is called unwritten law; for instance, not to appear in the market-place undressed or in women’s attire. There is no statute forbidding this, but nevertheless we abstain from such conduct because it is prohibited by an unwritten law. Thus law is either written or unwritten.
6421.   

6422. There are five species of medicine: the first is pharmacy, the second is surgery, the third deals with diet and regimen, the fourth with diagnosis, the fifth with remedies. Pharmacy cures sickness by drugs, surgery heals by the use of knife and cautery, the species concerned with diet prescribes a regimen for the removal of disease, that concerned with diagnosis proceeds by determining the nature 
6423.   

6424. There are three species of knowledge or science, one practical, another productive, and a third theoretical. For architecture and shipbuilding are productive arts, since the work produced by them can be seen. Politics and flute-playing, harp-playing and similar arts are practical. For nothing visible is produced by them; yet they do or perform something. In the one case the artist plays the flute or the harp, in the other the politician takes part in politics. Geometry and harmonics and astronomy are theoretical sciences. For they neither perform nor produce anything. But the geometer considers how lines are related to each other, the student of harmony investigates sounds, the astronomer stars and the universe. Thus some sciences are theoretical, others are practical, and others are productive.
6425.   

6426. There are three species of justice. One is concerned 
6427. But the monarchy in Lacedaemon and in Macedonia is hereditary, for they select the king from a certain family. A tyranny is that form in which the citizens are ruled either through fraud or force by an individual. Thus civil government is either democratic, aristocratic, oligarchic, or a monarchy or a tyranny.
6428.   

6429. There are five forms of civil government: one form is democratic, another aristocratic, a third oligarchic, a fourth monarchic, a fifth that of a tyrant. The democratic form is that in which the people has control and chooses at its own pleasure both magistrates and laws. The aristocratic form is that in which the rulers are neither the rich nor the poor nor the nobles, but the state is under the guidance of the best. Oligarchy is that form in which there is a property-qualification for the holding of office; for the rich are fewer than the poor. Monarchy is either regulated by law or hereditary. At Carthage the kingship is regulated by law, the office being put up for sale.
6430. Plato probably refers to Carthage when he mentions 
6431. δῶρα φανερῶς διδόντες
6432. Pol.
6433. Rep.
6434. ὠνηταὶ βασιλεῖαι
6435. purchasable
6436.   

6437. By the social form of friendship we mean that which arises from intimacy and has nothing to do with kinship; for instance, that of Pylades for Orestes. The friendship of hospitality is that which is extended to strangers owing to an introduction or letters of recommendation. Thus friendship is either natural or social or hospitable. Some add a fourth species, that of love.
6438. Thus there are three kinds of goods: goods of the mind, goods of the body and external goods. There are three species of friendship: one species is natural, another social, and another hospitable. By natural friendship we mean the affection which parents have for their offspring and kinsmen for each other. And other animals besides man have inherited this form.
6439.  

6440. He used also to divide things, according to Aristotle, in the following manner.
6441.  The third appendix begins here, containing the 
6442. sqq.
6443. Aristoteles Pseudepigraphus
6444. διαιρέσεις
6445. Hence to some he appeared too fond of myths. These narratives he intermingles with his works in order to deter men from wickedness, by reminding them how little they know of what awaits them
6446. Tim.
6447. Cf.
6448.   

6449. He also discoursed on the propriety of names, and indeed he was the first to frame a science for rightly asking and answering questions, having employed it himself to excess. And in the dialogues he conceived righteousness to be the law of God because it is stronger to incite men to do righteous acts, that malefactors may not be punished after death also. 
6450. He thinks that the gods take note of human life
6451. Tim.
6452. Cf.
6453. Tim.
6454. Cf.
6455.   

6456. On good and evil he would discourse to this effect. He maintained that the end to aim at is assimilation to God, that virtue is in itself sufficient for happiness, but that it needs in addition, as instruments for use, first, bodily advantages like health and strength, sound senses and the like, and, secondly, external advantages such as wealth, good birth and reputation. But the wise man will be no less happy even if he be without these things. Again, he will take part in public affairs, will marry, and will refrain from breaking the laws which have been made. And as far as circumstances allow he will legislate for his own country, unless in the extreme corruption of the people he sees that the state of affairs completely justifies his abstention. 
6457.   

6458. For the two causes existed even before the world was made, as well as becoming in the third place, but they were not distinct, merely traces of them being found, and in disorder. When the world was made, they too acquired order.
6459. Tim.
6460. Cf.
6461.   

6462. The principles, then, and causes assumed are the two above mentioned, of which God and matter are the exemplar. Matter is of necessity formless like the other recipients of form. Of all these there is a necessary cause. For it somehow or other receives the ideas and so generates substances, and it moves because its power is not uniform, and, being in 
6463.  

6464. And of all the gods in heaven the earth is the oldest. And it was fashioned to make night and day. And being at the centre it moves round the centre.
6465. Tim.
6466. Cf.
6467. sqq.
6468. Tim.
6469. Cf.
6470. Tim.
6471. Cf.
6472. Tim.
6473. Cf.
6474.   

6475. And the sun and moon and planets were created 
6476. Tim.
6477. Cf.
6478. Tim.
6479. Cf.
6480.   

6481. Time was created as an image of eternity. And while the latter remains for ever at rest, time consists in the motion of the universe. For night and day and month and the like are all parts of time; for which reason, apart from the nature of the universe, time has no existence. But so soon as the universe is fashioned time exists.
6482. Tim.
6483. Cf.
6484. The universe is composed of fire, water, air and earth; of fire in order to be visible; of earth in order to be solid; of water and air in order to be proportional.
6485. Tim.
6486. For the best of bonds is that which makes itself and the things which it binds as complete a unity as possible; and the nature of proportion is to accomplish this most perfectly
6487. in order that the bonds, the inserted terms (air and water), which unite fire to earth, may be proportional.
6488. Tim.
6489. Cf.
6490.   

6491. For that maker contains the other living things, and this universe the shapes of 
6492. Tim.
6493. Cf.
6494. Tim.
6495. Cf.
6496. Tim.
6497. Cf.
6498. A perversion of 
6499. Tim.
6500.   

6501. And there is one created universe,
6502. Tim.
6503. Cf.
6504. Tim.
6505. Cf.
6506. Tim.
6507. Cf.
6508. But the elements are not separated each into its own region of the universe, because the revolution unites their minute particles, compressing and forcing them together into the centre, at the same time as it separates the larger masses. Hence as they change their shapes, so also do they change the regions which they occupy.
6509. Tim.
6510. Cf.
6511.   

6512. This substance, he says, is converted into the four elements, fire, water, air, earth, of which the world itself and all that therein is are formed. Earth alone of these elements is not subject to change, the assumed cause being the peculiarity of its constituent triangles. For he thinks that in all the other elements the figures employed are homogeneous, the scalene triangle out of which they are all put together being one and the same, whereas for earth a triangle of peculiar shape is employed; the element of fire is a pyramid, of air an octahedron, of water an icosahedron, of earth a cube. Hence earth is not transmuted into the other three elements, nor these three into earth.
6513.   

6514. And the division from the centre to the circumference which is adjusted in harmony with the soul being thus determined, the soul knows that which is, and adjusts it proportionately because she has the elements proportionately disposed in herself. And when the circle of the Other revolves aright, the result is opinion; but from the regular motion of the circle of the Same comes knowledge. He set forth two universal principles, God and matter, and he calls God mind and cause; he held that matter is devoid of form and unlimited, and that composite things arise out of it
6515. Tim.
6516. Cf.
6517. Tim.
6518. Cf.
6519.   

6520. And from the centre outwards it encloses the body on all sides in a circle, and is compounded of elements, and, being divided at harmonic intervals, it forms two circles which touch one another twice; and the interior circle, being slit six times over, makes seven circles in all. And this interior circle moves by way of the diagonal to the left, and the other by way of the side to the right. Hence also the one is supreme, being a single circle, for the other interior circle was divided; the former is the circle of the Same, the latter that of the Other, whereby he means that the motion of the soul is the motion of the universe together with the revolutions of the planets.
6521. Tim.
6522. Cf.
6523.   

6524. The
6525. sqq.
6526. Tim.
6527. Cf.
6528. sqq.
6529. Tim.
6530. Cf.
6531. sqq.
6532. Tim.
6533. Cf.
6534. Here begins the second appendix 
6535. Tim.
6536. Cf.
6537. περὶ τῶν Πλάτωνι ἀρεσκόντων,
6538.   
	
6539. the dotted cross (⁜) denotes select passages and beauties of style; the dotted 
6540. Life of Zeno
6541. obelus
6542. ceraunium
6543. obelus
6544. diple
6545.   

6546. And since certain critical marks are affixed to his works let us now say a word about these. The cross X is taken to indicate peculiar expressions and figures of speech, and generally any idiom of Platonic usage; the 
6547. A wedge-shaped mark >, used in early papyri to denote a fresh paragraph.
6548. diple
6549. The right interpretation of his dialogues includes three things: first, the meaning of every statement must be explained; next, its purpose, whether it is made for a primary reason or by way of illustration, and whether to establish his own doctrines or to refute his interlocutor; in the third place it remains to examine its truth.
6550.   

6551. But sometimes Plato uses this same word (
6552. αἴτιον
6553. ἀρχή
6554. παράδειγμα
6555. γένος
6556. εἶδος
6557. φαῦλος
6558.   

6559. Plato has employed a variety of terms in order to make his system less intelligible to the ignorant. But in a special sense he considers wisdom to be the science of those things which are objects of thought and really existent, the science which, he says, is concerned with God and the soul as separate from the body. And especially by wisdom he means philosophy, which is a yearning for divine wisdom. And in a general sense all experience is also termed by him wisdom, 
6560. Plain (
6561. φαῦλος
6562. Nauck, 
6563. 2
6564. T.G.F.
6565. Licymnius
6566. ἁπλοῦς
6567. As 
6568. οὐ πάνυ φαῦλον ἀλλὰ χαλεπὸν πιστεῦσαι.
6569. Rep.
6570. Cf.
6571. οἷον ἐν τῇ τοῦ πηλοῦ ἐρωτήσει φαῦλόν που καὶ ἁπλοῦν εἰπεῖν ὅτι γῇ ὑγρῷ φυραθεῖσα πηλὸς ἂν εἴη, τὸ δʼ ὅτου ἐᾶν χαίρειν.
6572. Theaet.
6573. e.g.
6574. φαῦλος
6575. e.g.
6576.   
	
6577. In the first trilogy they place the 
6578. Memorabilia.
6579. Alcyon
6580. Cf.
6581. Alcyon
6582. Epimenides.
6583. Seventh Day
6584. Chelidon
6585. Demodocus
6586. Phaeacians
6587. Axiochus
6588. Sisyphus
6589. Acephali
6590. Alcyon
6591. Erasistratus
6592. Eryxias
6593. Horse-breeder
6594. Midon
6595. Apology.
6596. Theaetetus
6597. Phaedrus
6598. Timaeus
6599. Clitophon
6600. Euthyphro
6601. Theages
6602. Alcibiades
6603. Republic
6604. Epistles.
6605. Crito, Phaedo
6606. Apology
6607.  Euthyphro
6608. Theaetetus
6609. Epinomis
6610. Minos
6611. Laws
6612. Cratylus
6613. Statesman
6614. Sophist
6615. Critias
6616. Timaeus
6617. Republic
6618.   

6619. Some, including Aristophanes the grammarian, arrange the dialogues arbitrarily in trilogies. 
6620. In these epistles his heading was 
6621. All Joy.
6622. A Good Life,
6623. Welfare,
6624.   
	
6625. The seventh tetralogy contains, first, two dialogues entitled 
6626. Epistles
6627. Philosopher
6628. Nocturnal Council
6629. Epinomis
6630. On Legislation
6631. Laws
6632. On Law
6633. Minos
6634. Story of Atlantis
6635. Critias
6636. On Nature
6637. Timaeus
6638. On Justice
6639. Republic
6640. Introduction
6641. Clitophon
6642. The Funeral Oration
6643. Menexenus
6644. On the Iliad
6645. Ion
6646. On Falsehood
6647. On Beauty
6648. Hippias
6649.   

6650. The fourth tetralogy starts with 
6651. On Virtue
6652. Meno
6653. On Rhetoric
6654. Gorgias
6655. Sophists
6656. Protagoras
6657. The Eristic
6658. Euthydemus
6659. On Friendship
6660. Lysis
6661. On Courage
6662. Laches
6663. On Temperance
6664. Charmides
6665. On Philosophy
6666. Theages
6667. On Philosophy
6668. The Rivals
6669. The Lover of Gain
6670. Hipparchus
6671. On Prayer
6672. Alcibiades
6673. On the Nature of Man
6674. Alcibiades
6675.   

6676. This tetralogy, then, which is the first, begins with the 
6677. On Love
6678. Phaedrus
6679. On the Good
6680. Banquet
6681. On Pleasure
6682. Philebus
6683. On Ideas
6684. Parmenides
6685. On Monarchy
6686. Statesman
6687. On Being
6688. Sophist
6689. On Knowledge
6690. Theaetetus
6691. On Correctness of Names
6692. Cratylus
6693. On the Soul
6694. Phaedo
6695. On what is to be done
6696. Crito
6697. Apology of Socrates
6698. On Holiness
6699. Euthyphro
6700.   
	
6701. Now, says Thrasylus, the genuine dialogues are fifty-six in all, if the 
6702. Laws
6703. Republic
6704. From iii. 37 we infer that Favorinus drew upon Aristoxenus for this wildly improbable assertion.
6705. Controversies.
6706. Republic
6707. Miscellaneous History
6708. Laws
6709. Republic
6710.   

6711. But, just as long ago in tragedy the chorus was the only actor, and afterwards, in order to give the chorus breathing space, Thespis devised a single actor, Aeschylus a second, Sophocles a third, and thus tragedy was completed, so too with philosophy: in early times it discoursed on one subject only, namely physics, then Socrates added the second subject, ethics, and Plato the third, dialectics, and so brought philosophy to perfection. Thrasylus says that he published his dialogues in tetralogies, like those of the tragic poets. Thus they contended with four plays at the Dionysia, the Lenaea, the Panathenaea and the festival of Chytri.
6712. Pots.
6713.   
6714. This is the rhetorical form of induction, since rhetoric also is concerned with particular facts and not with universals. It does not inquire about justice in the abstract, but about particular cases of justice. The other kind, where the general proposition is first established by means of particular facts, is the induction of dialectic. For instance, the question put is whether the soul is immortal, and whether the living come back from the dead. And this is proved in the dialogue 
6715. vice versa.
6716. vice versa
6717. On the Soul
6718.   

6719. And again: 
6720. Did so-and-so commit a murder?
6721. If man is not an animal, he will be either a stick or a stone. But he is not a stick or a stone; for he is animate and self-moved. Therefore he is an animal. But if he is an animal, and if a dog or an ox is also an animal, then man by being an animal will be a dog and an ox as well.
6722.   

6723. In constructing his proofs he makes most use of induction, not always in the same way, but under two forms. For induction is an argument which by means of certain true premisses properly infers a truth resembling them. And there are two kinds of induction, the one proceeding by way of contradiction, the other from agreement. In the kind which proceeds by contradiction the answer given to every question will necessarily be the contrary of the 
6724. My father is either other than or the same as your father. If then your father is other than my father, by being other than a father he will not be a father. But if he is the same as my father, then by being the same as my father he will be my father.
6725. e.g.
6726.   

6727. Of these the former is a proposition, the latter a conception. Now where he has a firm grasp Plato expounds his own view and refutes the false one, but, if the subject is obscure, he suspends judgement. His own views are expounded by four persons, Socrates, Timaeus, the Athenian Stranger,
6728. That the Eleatic Stranger is not Parmenides is decisively proved by 
6729. Soph.
6730. In the 
6731. Statesman
6732. Sophist
6733. In the 
6734. Laws
6735.  

6736. Again, as there is great division of opinion between those who affirm and those who deny that Plato was a dogmatist, let me proceed to deal with this further question. To be a dogmatist in philosophy is to lay down positive dogmas, just as to be a legislator is to lay down laws. Further, under dogma two things are included, the thing opined and the opinion itself.
6737.  To the class of mental obstetrics belong the two 
6738. Hippias
6739. Gorgias
6740. Euthydemus
6741. Protagoras
6742. Theaetetus
6743. Charmides
6744. Io
6745. Meno
6746. Euthyphro
6747. Laches
6748. Lysis
6749. Theages
6750. Alcibiades
6751.   
	
6752. I am not unaware that there are other ways in which certain writers classify the dialogues. For some dialogues they call dramatic, others narrative, and others again a mixture of the two. But the terms they employ in their classification of the dialogues are better suited to the stage than to philosophy. Physics is represented by the 
6753. Critias.
6754. i.e.
6755. Epinomis
6756. Minos
6757. Laws
6758. Republic
6759. Rivals
6760. Hipparchus
6761. Philebus
6762. Epistles
6763. Menexenus
6764. Symposium
6765. Phaedrus
6766. Phaedo
6767. Crito
6768. Apology
6769. Sophist
6770. Parmenides
6771. Cratylus
6772. Statesman
6773. Timaeus
6774.   

6775. Of the Platonic dialogues there are two most general types, the one adapted for instruction and the other for inquiry. And the former is further divided into two types, the theoretical and the practical. And of these the theoretical is divided into the physical and logical, and the practical into the ethical and political. The dialogue of inquiry also has two main divisions, the one of which aims at training the mind and the other at victory in controversy. Again, the part which aims at training the mind has two subdivisions, the one akin to the midwife’s art, the other merely tentative. And that suited to controversy is also subdivided into one part which raises critical objections, and another which is subversive of the main position.
6776.   
	
6777. They say that Zeno the Eleatic was the first to write dialogues. But, according to Favorinus in his 
6778. On Poets
6779. Memorabilia
6780.   
	
6781. Now, as you are an enthusiastic Platonist, and rightly so, and as you eagerly seek out that philosopher’s doctrines in preference to all others, I have thought it necessary to give some account of the true nature of his discourses, the arrangement of the dialogues, and the method of his inductive procedure, as far as possible in an elementary manner and in main outline, in order that the facts I have collected respecting his life may not suffer by the omission of his doctrines. For, in the words of the proverb, it would be taking owls to Athens, were I to give you of all people the full particulars.
6782. and in this Polemo agrees. Sabinus makes Demosthenes his pupil, quoting, in the fourth book of his 
6783. Here begins the first of three appendices, being an introduction to the study of the Platonic writings (47-66). Freudenthal, in 
6784. Πρόλογος
6785. Hell. Stud.
6786. Materials for Criticism
6787.   

6788. His disciples were Speusippus of Athens, Xenocrates of Chalcedon, Aristotle of Stagira, Philippus of Opus, Hestiaeus of Perinthus, Dion of Syracuse, Amyclus of Heraclea, Erastus and Coriscus of Scepsus, Timolaus of Cyzicus, Euaeon of Lampsacus, Python and Heraclides of Aenus, Hippothales and Callippus of Athens, Demetrius of Amphipolis, Heraclides of Pontus, and many others, among them two women, Lastheneia of Mantinea and Axiothea of Phlius, who is reported by Dicaearchus to have worn men’s clothes. Some say that Theophrastus too attended his lectures. Chamaeleon adds Hyperides 
6789.   

6790. There is also an epitaph of my own which runs thus
6791. Phoebus gave to mortals Asclepius and Plato, the one to save their souls, the other to save their bodies. From a wedding banquet he has passed to that city which he had founded for himself and planted in the sky.
6792. Anth. Pal.
6793. If Phoebus did not cause Plato to be born in Greece, how came it that he healed the minds of men by letters? As the god’s son Asclepius is a healer of the body, so is Plato of the immortal soul.
6794. Anth. Pal.
6795.   

6796. Next
6797. B.
6798. A.
6799. Anth. Pal.
6800. Earth in her bosom here hides Plato’s body, but his soul hath its immortal station with the blest, Ariston’s son, 
6801. Anth. Pal.
6802. 

6803. Such were the terms of his will. The following epitaphs were inscribed upon his tomb
6804. Here lies the god-like man Aristocles, eminent among men for temperance and the justice of his character. And he, if ever anyone, had the fullest meed of praise for wisdom, and was too great for envy.
6805. Anth. Pal.
6806. Household furniture, as set down in the inventory of which Demetrius has the duplicate. I owe no one anything. My executors are Leosthenes, Speusippus, Demetrius, Hegias, Eurymedon, Callimachus and Thrasippus.
6807.   
	
6808. the estate in Eiresidae which I bought of Callimachus, bounded on the north by the property of Eurymedon of Myrrhinus, on the south by the property of Demostratus of Xypete, on the east by that of Eurymedon of Myrrhinus, and on the west by the Cephisus; three minae of silver; a silver vessel weighing 165 drachmas; a cup weighing 45 drachmas; a gold signet-ring and earring together weighing four drachmas and three obols. Euclides the lapidary owes me three minae. I enfranchise Artemis. I leave four household servants, Tychon, Bictas, Apollonides and Dionysius. 
6809.   

6810. These things have been left and devised by 
6811. He was buried in the Academy, where he spent the greatest part of his life in philosophical study. And hence the school which he founded was called the Academic school. And all the students there joined in the funeral procession. The terms of his will were as follows:
6812.   

6813. His death, the circumstances of which have already been related, took place in the thirteenth year of the reign of King Philip, as stated by Favorinus in the third book of his 
6814. Parallels
6815. τὸν ἀδελφεὸν δηλαδὴ ἐπιτιμέων
6816. Cf.
6817. The awkwardness of this last clause can be explained, but not excused, if we suppose that Diogenes Laertius got his citation of Theopompus from Favorinus.
6818. Memorabilia
6819. Truth, O stranger, is a fair and durable thing. But it is a thing of which it is hard to persuade men.
6820. 663 e.
6821. Laws
6822. no one when asleep is good for anything.
6823.   

6824. Further, it is alleged that he said to one of his slaves, 
6825. 808 b.
6826. Laws
6827. I would have given you a flogging, had I not been in a passion.
6828.   

6829. A story is told that Plato once saw some one playing at dice and rebuked him. And, upon his protesting that he played for a trifle only, 
6830. A man must first make a name, and he will have no lack of memoirs.
6831. is not a trifle.
6832. But the habit,
6833. There is a story that the 
6834. Phaedrus
6835.   

6836. Nowhere in his writings does Plato mention himself by name, except in the dialogue 
6837. Controversies
6838. Republic
6839. Republic
6840. Epinomis.
6841. Laws
6842. On the Soul
6843. 34 a.
6844. Apology
6845. Phaedo
6846. On the Soul
6847.   

6848. Plato was also on bad terms with Aristippus. At least in the dialogue 
6849. Cf.
6850. Of the Soul
6851.   

6852. It is said also that Antisthenes, being about to read publicly something that he had composed, invited Plato to be present. And on his inquiring what he was about to read, Antisthenes replied that it was something about the impossibility of contradiction. 
6853. By Heracles, what a number of lies this young man is telling about me!
6854. Lysis
6855. Sathon.
6856. can you write on this subject?
6857. How then,
6858.   

6859. Further, Molon, being his enemy, said, 
6860. Memorabilia.
6861. 694 c.
6862. Laws
6863. Cyropaedia.
6864. Republic
6865. Diogenes is probably comparing with the 
6866. Crito
6867. Charmides
6868. Laches
6869. Memorabilia
6870. Defence of Socrates
6871. Symposium
6872. It is not wonderful that Dionysius should be in Corinth, but rather that Plato should be in Sicily.
6873.   

6874. It is also said that the epigram on the Eretrians, who were swept out of the country, was written by him
6875. A certain person found some gold,
		
6876. Anth. Pal.
6877. Thus Venus to the Muses spoke:
	
6878. Anth. Pal.
6879. We are Eretrians by race, from Euboea, and lie near Susa. How far, alas, from our native land!
6880. Anth. Pal.
6881.   

6882. There is another upon Agathon
6883. An apple am I, thrown by one who loves you. Nay, Xanthippe, give consent, for you and I are both born to decay.
6884. Anth. Pal.
6885. I throw an apple to you and, if indeed you are willing to love me, then receive it and let me taste your virgin charms. But if you are otherwise minded, which heaven forbid, take this very apple and see how short-lived all beauty is.
6886. Anth. Pal.
6887. While kissing Agathon, my soul leapt to my lips, as if fain, alas! to pass over to him.
6888. Anth. Pal.
6889.   

6890. Again, it is said that being enamoured of Alexis and Phaedrus, as before mentioned, he composed the following lines
6891. I have a mistress, fair Archeanassa of Colophon, on whose very wrinkles sits hot love. O hapless ye who met such beauty on its first voyage, what a flame must have been kindled in you!
6892. Anth. Pal.
6893. Now, when Alexis is of no account, I have said no more than this. He is fair to see, and everywhere all eyes are turned upon him. Why, my heart, do you show the dogs a bone? And then will you smart for this hereafter? Was it not thus that we lost Phaedrus?
6894. Anth. Pal.
6895. This, they say, was actually inscribed upon his tomb at Syracuse.
6896.   

6897. And he wrote thus upon Dion
6898. Anth. Pal.
6899.   

6900. Star-gazing Aster, would I were the skies,
	
6901. Among the living once the Morning Star,
	
6902. To gaze upon thee with a thousand eyes. 
6903. Aristippus in his fourth book 
6904. Anth. Pal.
6905. On the Luxury of the Ancients
6906.   

6907. And in the 
6908. Rich Women
6909. Circe
6910. Botrylion
6911. Of the Middle Comedy; Meineke, iii. 342-352.
6912. Or, with Plato, to converse alone.
6913. Ib.
6914. Parasite
6915. 
		
6916. B.
6917. A.
6918. Meineke, 
6919. C.G.F.
6920. Olympiodorus
6921. 
		
6922. B.
6923. A.
6924. The False Changeling
6925. C.G.F.
6926. Sc.
6927. O Plato, all you know is how to frown with eyebrows lifted high like any snail.
6928. Meineke, 
6929. C.G.F.
6930. Dexidemides
6931.   

6932. Alexis again in the 
6933. 
	
6934. B.
6935. A.
6936. Amphicrates
6937. A poet of the Middle Comedy; Meineke, 
6938. loc. cit.
6939. You don’t know what you are talking about: run about with Plato, and you’ll know all about soap and onions.
6940. Ib.
6941. Ancylion
6942. You have come in the nick of time. For I am at my wits’ end and walking up and down, like Plato, and yet have discovered no wise plan but only tired my legs.
6943. Ib.
6944. Meropis
6945.   

6946. Heraclides declares that in his youth he was so modest and orderly that he was never seen to laugh outright. In spite of this he too was ridiculed by the Comic poets. At any rate Theopompus in his 
6947. As Plato placed strange platitudes.
6948. Ib.
6949. He was eating olives exactly like Plato.
6950. Theseus
6951. Comic poet; 
6952. ib.
6953. There is not anything that is truly one, even the number two is scarcely one, according to Plato.
6954. Meineke, 
6955. C.G.F.
6956. Hedychares
6957.   

6958. He was also the first philosopher who controverted the speech of Lysias, the son of Cephalus, which he has set out word for word in the 
6959. Mithradates the Persian, the son of Orontobates, dedicated to the Muses a likeness of Plato made by Silanion.
6960. Memorabilia
6961. 230 e 
6962. sqq.
6963. Phaedrus
6964.   

6965. He was the first to introduce argument by means of question and answer, says Favorinus in the eighth book of his 
6966. The same statement that Plato made over to Leodamas the analytical method occurs in Proclus, 
6967. Euclid
6968. On Eucl.
6969. Miscellaneous History
6970. and that, on this occasion, as he was going up to the Acropolis along with Chabrias, Crobylus the informer met him and said, 
6971. As I faced dangers when serving in the cause of my country, so I will face them now in the cause of duty for a friend.
6972. What, are you come to speak for the defence? Don’t you know that the hemlock of Socrates awaits you?
6973.   

6974. The third time he came to reconcile Dion and Dionysius, but, failing to do so, returned to his own country without achieving anything. And there he refrained from meddling with politics, although his writings show that he was a statesman. The reason was that the people had already been accustomed to measures and institutions quite different from his own. Pamphila in the twenty-fifth book of her 
6975. Compare Aelian, 
6976. Var. Hist.
6977. Memorabilia
6978.   

6979. We, being all of us the friends of Plato, have sent to you Lamiscus and Photidas in order to take the philosopher away by the terms of the agreement made with you. You will do well to remember the zeal with which you urged us all to secure Plato’s coming to Sicily, determined as you were to persuade him and to undertake, amongst other things, responsibility for his safety so long as he stayed with you and on his return. Remember this too, that you set great store by his coming, and from that time had more regard for him than for any of those at your court. If he has given you offence, it behoves you to behave with humanity and restore him to us unhurt. By so doing you will satisfy justice and at the same time put us under an obligation.
6980.   

6981. Archytas to Dionysius, wishing him good health.
6982. The second time he visited the younger Dionysius, requesting of him lands and settlers for the realization of his republic. Dionysius promised them but did not keep his word. Some say that Plato was also in great danger, being suspected of encouraging Dion and Theodotas in a scheme for liberating the whole island; on this occasion Archytas the Pythagorean wrote to Dionysius, procured his pardon, and got him conveyed safe to Athens. The letter runs as follows:
6983. Dionysius, indeed, could not rest. On learning the facts he wrote and enjoined upon Plato not to speak evil of him. And Plato replied that he had not the leisure to keep Dionysius in his mind.
6984.   
	
6985. Anniceris the Cyrenaic happened to be present and ransomed him for twenty minae—according to others the sum was thirty minae—and dispatched him to Athens to his friends, who immediately remitted the money. But Anniceris declined it, saying that the Athenians were not the only people worthy of the privilege of providing for Plato. Others assert that Dion sent the money and that Anniceris would not take it, but bought for Plato the little garden which is in the Academy. Pollis, however, is stated to have been defeated by Chabrias and afterwards to have been drowned at Helice,
6986. Memorabilia.
6987. In the tidal wave which swallowed up ten Lacedaemonian triremes in the great earthquake of 372 b.c.: Aelian, 
6988. Hist. animal.
6989.   

6990. At this the tyrant grew furious and at first was bent on putting him to death; then, when he had been dissuaded from this by Dion and Aristomenes, he did not indeed go so far but handed him over to Pollis the Lacedaemonian, who had just then arrived on an embassy, with orders to sell him into slavery. 
6991. Miscellaneous History.
6992.   

6993. Plato, it seems, was the first to bring to Athens the mimes of Sophron which had been neglected, and to draw characters in the style of that writer; a copy of the mimes, they say, was actually found under his pillow. He made three voyages to Sicily, the first time to see the island and the craters of Etna: on this occasion Dionysius, the son of Hermocrates, being on the throne, forced him to become intimate with him. But when Plato held forth on tyranny and maintained that the interest of the ruler alone was not the best end, unless he were also pre-eminent in virtue, he offended Dionysius, who in his anger exclaimed, 
6994. And you like a tyrant,
6995. You talk like an old dotard.
6996.   

6997. These and the like instances Alcimus notes through four books, pointing out the assistance derived by Plato from Epicharmus. That Epicharmus himself was fully conscious of his wisdom can also be seen from the lines in which he foretells that he will have an imitator
6998. And as I think—for when I think anything I know it full well—that my words will some day be remembered; some one will take them and free them from the metre in which they are now set, nay, will give them instead a purple robe, embroidering it with fine phrases; and, being invincible, he will make every one else an easy prey.
6999. This fragment (Fr. 6 D.), which has not the authority of Alcimus, is generally condemned as spurious.
7000.   
	
7001. 

7002. It is no wonder then that we talk thus and are pleased with ourselves and think we are fine folk. For a dog appears the fairest of things to a dog, an ox to an ox, an ass to an ass, and verily a pig to a pig.
7003. Wisdom is not confined, Eumaeus, to one kind alone, but all living creatures likewise have understanding. For, if you will study intently the hen among poultry, she does not bring forth the chicks alive, but sits clucking on the eggs and wakens life in them. As for this wisdom of hers, the true state of the case is known to Nature alone, for the hen has learnt it from herself.
7004.   
	
7005. Now Plato in conceiving his theory of Ideas says
7006. could animals have survived unless they had apprehended the idea and had been endowed by Nature with intelligence to that end? As it is, they remember similarities and what their food is like, which shows that animals have the innate power of discerning what is similar. And hence they perceive others of their own kind.
7007. For how,
7008. (I considered) whether it is blood or air or fire with which we think, or none of these things, but the brain which furnishes the senses of hearing and sight and smell, and from these arise memory and opinion, and from memory and opinion, when they have become stable, in the same way knowledge arises.
7009. Phaedo
7010. Cf.
7011.   
	
7012. 

7013. 

7014. A.
7015. B.
7016. A.
7017. B.
7018. A.
7019. B.
7020. A.
7021.   
	
7022. beauty, goodness, justice and the like, each existing in and for itself; in the third place we must see how many of the ideas are relative to other ideas, as are knowledge, or magnitude, or ownership, remembering that the things within our experience bear the same names as those ideas because they partake of them; I mean that things which partake of justice are just, things which partake of beauty are beautiful. Each one of the ideas is eternal, it is a notion, and moreover is incapable of change. Hence Plato says that they stand in nature like archetypes, and that all things else bear a resemblance to the ideas because they are copies of these archetypes. Now here are the words of Epicharmus about the good and about the ideas:
7023.   

7024. Again, Alcimus makes this further statement: 
7025. There are some things, say the wise, which the soul perceives through the body, as in seeing and hearing; there are other things which it discerns by itself without the aid of the body. Hence it follows that of existing things some are objects of sense and others objects of thought. Hence Plato said that, if we wish to take in at one glance the principles underlying the universe, we must first distinguish the ideas by themselves, for example, likeness, unity and plurality, magnitude, rest and motion; next we must assume the existence of 
7026.   

7027. 

7028. at least of the things which we are thus talking about now; on the contrary, they existed from all eternity. . . .
	
7029. A.
7030. B.
7031. Or, reading 
7032. a substantial length.
7033. ἕτερον,
7034. στερρόν
7035. A.
7036. B.
7037. A.
7038.   

7039. 
	
7040. A.
7041. B.
7042. A.
7043. B.
7044. A.
7045. The assumption is that the things from which you take away number are no longer equal nor determinate, nor have they quantity or quality. These are the things to which becoming always, and being never, belongs. But the object of thought is something constant from which nothing is subtracted, to which nothing is added. This is the nature of the eternal things, the attribute of which is to be ever alike and the same. And indeed Epicharmus has expressed himself plainly about objects of sense and objects of thought.
7046.   

7047. It is evident that Plato often employs the words of Epicharmus.
7048. The genuineness of these fragments is doubted by Wilamowitz, Rohde, and others; see Wilamowitz, 
7049. Frag. der Vorsok.
7050. ad loc.
7051. Platon
7052. Some authorities, amongst them Satyrus, say that he wrote to Dion in Sicily instructing him to purchase three Pythagorean books from Philolaus for 100 minae. For they say he was well off, having received from Dionysius over eighty talents. This is stated by Onetor in an essay upon the theme, 
7053. Whether a wise man will make money.
7054.   

7055. Thus the original name of the place was Hecademy, spelt with 
7056. e.
7057.   

7058. Furthermore he said that, according to Homer,
7059. Amongst all of them Plato was the leader, a big fish, but a sweet-voiced speaker, musical in prose as the cicala who, perched on the trees of Hecademus, pours forth a strain as delicate as a lily.
7060. Fr. 30 D.
7061. In the shady walks of the divine Hecademus.
7062. Meineke, 
7063. Etymol. Magnum.
7064. Ἀνδρογύναι,
7065. Εὔπολις,
7066. s.v.
7067. C.G.F.
7068. Shirkers
7069. Od.
7070.   

7071. From that time onward, having reached his twentieth year (so it is said), he was the pupil of Socrates. When Socrates was gone, he attached himself to Cratylus the Heraclitean, and to Hermogenes who professed the philosophy of Parmenides. Then at the age of twenty-eight, according to Hermodorus, he withdrew to Megara to Euclides, with certain other disciples of Socrates. Next he proceeded to Cyrene on a visit to Theodorus the mathematician, thence to Italy to see the Pythagorean philosophers Philolaus and Eurytus, and thence to Egypt to see 
7072. The sea doth wash away all human ills.
7073. Eur. 
7074. Iph. T.
7075.   

7076. At first he used to study philosophy in the Academy, and afterwards in the garden at Colonus (as Alexander states in his 
7077. Come hither, O fire-god, Plato now has need of thee.
7078. ἔπειτα μέντοι . . . τι σεῖο χατίζει.
7079. Hom. 
7080. Il.
7081. Aelian (
7082. before the festival of Dionysus.
7083. πρὸ τῶν Διονυσίων,
7084. V.H.
7085. Successions of Philosophers
7086. and that he applied himself to painting and wrote poems, first dithyrambs, afterwards lyric poems and tragedies. He had, they say, a weak voice; this is confirmed by Timotheus the Athenian in his book 
7087. Compare Apuleius, 
7088. ἐν Ἀκαδημείᾳ, εἶτα ἐν τῷ κήπῳ τῷ παρὰ τὸν Κολωνόν,
7089. De Platone
7090. On Lives.
7091.   

7092. He was taught letters in the school of Dionysius, who is mentioned by him in the 
7093. On Lives
7094. Successions of Philosophers.
7095. Rivals.
7096. He had two brothers, Adeimantus and Glaucon, and a sister, Potone, who was the mother of Speusippus.
7097.   
	
7098. Neanthes, however, makes him die at the age of eighty-four. He is thus seen to be six years the junior of Isocrates. For Isocrates was born in the archonship of Lysimachus,
7099. Walks
7100. Miscellaneous History
7101. On Dates.
7102. 429 b.c.
7103. 436-435 b.c.
7104.   

7105. Apollodorus in his 
7106. 427-347 b.c.
7107. Chronology
7108. Speusippus in the work entitled 
7109. On Philosophers
7110. Encomium on Plato
7111. Plato’s Funeral Feast
7112.   

7113. Plato was the son of Ariston and a citizen of Athens. His mother was Perictione (or Potone), who traced back her descent to Solon. For Solon had a brother, Dropides; he was the father of Critias, who was the father of Callaeschrus, who was the father of Critias, one of the Thirty, as well as of Glaucon, who was the father of Charmides and Perictione. Thus Plato, the son of this Perictione and Ariston, was in the sixth generation from Solon. And Solon traced his descent to Neleus and Poseidon. His father too is said to be in the direct line from Codrus, the son of Melanthus, and, according to Thrasylus, Codrus and Melanthus also trace their descent from Poseidon.
7114. PLATO (427-347 B.C.)
7115. BOOK III
7116.  

7117.  

7118.   

7119. These then are the disciples of Socrates or their immediate successors. We must now pass to Plato, the founder of the Academy, and his successors, so far as they were men of reputation.
7120. According to the statement of Heraclides he died in his seventy-fourth year. I have written the following epigram upon him
7121. I heard of your fate, Menedemus, how, of your own free will, you expired by starving yourself for seven days, a deed right worthy of an Eretrian, but unworthy of a man; but despair was your leader and urged you on.
7122. Anth. Plan.
7123. Hence on one occasion over the wine Menedemus refuted Persaeus in argument and said, amongst other things, 
7124. Such he is as a philosopher but, as a man, the worst of all that are alive or to be born hereafter.
7125.   

7126. Heraclides tells quite another story, that he was made councillor of the Eretrians and more than once saved the city from a tyranny by calling in Demetrius —so then he would not be likely to betray the city 
7127. Antigonus of Carystus (see Introd. p. xxiii) is the older authority, from whom Heraclides (probably Heraclides Lembos) directly or indirectly derived his information.
7128.   

7129. On these grounds, then, and from his friendship for him in other matters, he was suspected of betraying the city to Antigonus, and, being denounced by Aristodemus, withdrew from Eretria and stayed awhile in Oropus in the temple of Amphiaraus. And, because some golden goblets were missing from the temple, he was ordered to depart by a general vote of the Boeotians, as is stated by Hermippus; and thereupon in despair, after a secret visit to his native city, he took with him his wife and daughters and came to the court of Antigonus, where he died of a broken heart.
7130. On the motion of the generals and the councillors—Whereas King Antigonus is returning to his own country after vanquishing the barbarians in battle, and whereas in all his undertakings he prospers according to his will, the senate and the people have decreed . . .
7131.   
	
7132. Histories.
7133. Menedemus to King Demetrius, greeting. I hear that a report has reached you concerning me.
7134.   

7135. At first he was despised, being called a cynic and a humbug by the Eretrians. But afterwards he was greatly admired, so much so that they entrusted him with the government of the state. He was sent as envoy to Ptolemy and to Lysimachus, being honoured wherever he went. He was, moreover, envoy to Demetrius, and he caused the yearly tribute of two hundred talents which the city used to pay Demetrius to be reduced by fifty talents. And when he was accused to Demetrius of intriguing to hand over the city to Ptolemy, he defended 
7136. All of these facts are mentioned by Lycophron in his satiric drama entitled 
7137. And after a temperate feast the modest cup was passed round with discretion, and their dessert was temperate discourse for such as cared to listen.
7138. Nauck, 
7139. 2
7140. T.G.F.
7141. Menedemus
7142.   

7143. He used to give his parties in this fashion: he would breakfast beforehand with two or three friends and stay until it was late in the day. And in the next place some one would summon the guests who had arrived and who had themselves already dined, so that, if anyone came too soon, he would walk up and down and inquire from those who came out of the house what was on the table and what o’clock it was. If then it was only vegetables or salt fish, they would depart; but if there was meat, they would enter the house. In the summer time a rush mat was put upon each couch, in winter time a sheepskin. The guest brought his own cushion. The loving-cup which was passed round was no larger than a pint cup. The dessert consisted of lupins or beans, sometimes of ripe fruit such as pears, pomegranates, a kind of pulse, or even dried figs. 
7144.   

7145. However, Asclepiades died first at a great age at Eretria, having lived with Menedemus economically, though they had ample means. Some time afterwards a favourite of Asclepiades, having come to a party and being refused admittance by the pupils, Menedemus ordered them to admit him, saying that even now, when under the earth, Asclepiades opened the door for him. It was Hipponicus the Macedonian and Agetor of Lamia who were their chief supporters; the one gave each of the two thirty minae, while Hipponicus furnished Menedemus with two thousand drachmae with which to portion his daughters. There were three of them according to Heraclides, his children by a wife who was a native of Oropus.
7146.   

7147. He was a very warm friend, as is shown by his affection for Asclepiades, which was hardly inferior to the devotion shown by Pylades. But, Asclepiades being the elder, it was said that he was the playwright and Menedemus the actor. They say that once, when Archipolis had given them a cheque for half a talent, they stickled so long over the point as to whose claim came second that neither of them got the money. It is said that they married a mother and her daughter; Asclepiades married the daughter and Menedemus the mother. But after the death of his own wife, Asclepiades took the wife of Menedemus; and afterwards the latter, when he became head of the state, married a rich woman as his second wife. Nevertheless, as they kept one household, Menedemus entrusted his former wife with the care of his establishment. 
7148.   

7149. On hearing some one say that the greatest good was to get all you want, he rejoined, 
7150. To want the right things is a far greater good.
7151.   

7152. It is said that he disallowed negative propositions, converting them into affirmatives, and of these he admitted simple propositions only, rejecting those which are not simple, I mean hypothetical and complex propositions. Heraclides declares that, although in his doctrines he was a Platonist, yet he made sport of dialectic. So that, when Alexinus once inquired if he had left off beating his father, his answer was, 
7153. for me to conform to your rules when I can stop you on the threshold.
7154. It would be absurd,
7155. No,
7156. Yes
7157. Why, I was not beating him and have not left off
7158.   

7159. He despised the teachers of the school of Plato and Xenocrates as well as the Cyrenaic philosopher Paraebates. He had a great admiration for Stilpo; and on one occasion, when he was questioned about him, he made no other answer than that he was a gentleman. Menedemus was difficult to see through, and in making a bargain it was difficult to get the better of him. He would twist and turn in every direction, and he excelled in inventing objections. He was a great controversialist, according to Antisthenes 
7160. Then to confer benefits is not good.
7161. Yes.
7162. And is conferring benefits different from the good?
7163. Yes.
7164. Is the one of two things different from the other?
7165. Successions of Philosophers.
7166. which are from the 
7167. Medea
7168. Omphale
7169.   

7170. He was fond of entertaining and used to collect numerous parties about him because Eretria was unhealthy; amongst these there would be parties of poets and musicians. He welcomed Aratus also and Lycophron the tragic poet, and Antagoras of Rhodes, but, above all, he applied himself to the study of Homer and, next, the Lyric poets; then to Sophocles, and also to Achaeus, to whom he assigned the second place as a writer of satiric dramas, giving Aeschylus the first. Hence he quoted against his political opponents the following lines
7171. Ere long the swift is overtaken by the feeble,

7172. Nauck, 
7173. Achaeus
7174. 2
7175. T.G.F.
7176.   

7177. He was also in a way rather superstitious. At all events once, when he was at an inn with Asclepiades and had inadvertently eaten some meat which had been thrown away, he turned sick and pale when he learnt the fact, until Asclepiades rebuked him, saying that it was not the meat which disturbed him but merely his suspicion of it. In all other respects he was magnanimous and liberal. In his habit of body, even in old age, he was as firm and sunburnt in appearance as any athlete, being stout and always 
7178.   
	
7179. In other respects he is said to have been nervous and careful of his reputation; so much so that, when Menedemus himself and Asclepiades were helping a man who had formerly been a builder to build a house, whereas Asclepiades appeared stripped on the roof passing the mortar, Menedemus would try to hide himself as often as he saw anyone coming. After he took part in public affairs, he was so nervous that, when offering the frankincense, he would actually miss the censer. And once, when Crates stood about him and attacked him for meddling in politics, he ordered certain men to have Crates locked up. But Crates none the less watched him as he went by and, standing on tiptoe, called him a pocket Agamemnon and Hegesipolis.
7180.   
	
7181. He shirked work, it is said, and was indifferent to the fortunes of his school. At least no order could be seen in his classes, and no circle of benches; but each man would listen where he happened to be, walking or sitting, Menedemus himself behaving in the same way. 
7182. The tyrant having replied to this by saying that on this day he had the leisure to hear philosophers, he pressed the point still more stubbornly, declaring, while the feast was going on, that any and every occasion should be employed in listening to philosophers. The consequence was that, if a certain flute-player had not got them away, they would have been put to death. Hence when they were in a storm in the boat 
7183.   
	
7184. Of one who affirmed that there were many good things, he inquired how many, and whether he thought there were more than a hundred. Not being able to curb the extravagance of some one who had invited him to dinner, he said nothing when he was invited, but rebuked his host tacitly by confining himself to olives. However, on account of this freedom of speech he was in great peril in Cyprus with his friend Asclepiades when staying at the court of Nicocreon. For when the king held the usual monthly feast and invited these two along with the other philosophers, we are told that Menedemus said that, if the gathering of such men was a good thing, the feast ought to have been held every day; if not, then it was superfluous even on the present occasion. 
7185.   

7186. To an adulterer who was giving himself airs he said, 
7187. Well, I am married.
7188. Do you think me good or not?
7189. Then go and look after them, lest it should happen that they are ruined and a clever farmer thrown away.
7190. See what there is behind you.
7191. Do you not know that, if cabbage has a good flavour, so for that matter has radish?
7192.   

7193. He was a man of such dignity that, when Eurylochus of Casandrea was invited by Antigonus to court along with Cleïppides, a youth of Cyzicus, he declined the invitation, being afraid that Menedemus would hear of it, so caustic and outspoken was he. When a young gallant would have taken liberties with him, he said not a word but picked up a twig and drew an insulting picture on the ground, until all eyes were attracted and the young man, perceiving the insult, made off. When Hierocles, who was in command of the Piraeus, walked up and down along with him in the shrine of Amphiaraus, and talked much of the capture of Eretria, he made no other reply beyond asking him what Antigonus’s object was in treating him as he did.
7194.   

7195. It would appear that Menedemus was somewhat pompous. Hence Crates burlesques him thus
7196. A puffing, supercilious purveyor of humbug.
7197. Fr. 29 D.
7198. Asclepiades the sage of Phlius and the Eretrian bull;
7199. Fr. 2 D.
7200. Asclepiades of Phlius drew him away, and he lived at Megara with Stilpo, whose lectures they both attended. 
7201.  

7202. Menedemus belonged to Phaedo’s school; he was the son of Clisthenes, a member of the clan called the Theopropidae, of good family, though a builder and a poor man; others say that he was a scenepainter and that Menedemus learnt both trades. Hence, when he had proposed a decree, a certain Alexinius attacked him, declaring that the philosopher was not a proper person to design either a scene or a decree. When Menedemus was dispatched by the Eretrians to Megara on garrison duty, he paid a visit to Plato at the Academy and was so captivated that he abandoned the service of arms.
7203. Chapter 17. MENEDEMUS
7204.  

7205.  

7206. Cebes was a citizen of Thebes. Three dialogues of his are extant: 

7207. Phrynichus.
7208. The Seventh Day.
7209. The Tablet.
7210. Chapter 16. CEBES
7211.  

7212.  		

7213. Simmias was a citizen of Thebes. Twenty-three dialogues of his are extant in a single volume:

7214. On Love.
7215. On Diligence.
7216. What is the beautiful.
7217. On Life.
7218. On Money.
7219. Of that which is possible.
7220. On a Good Life.
7221. Of the Soul.
7222. On Knowledge.
7223. On Friendship.
7224. Of that which is to be chosen and avoided.
7225. Of that which is becoming.
7226. On Government.
7227. On Art.
7228. On Teaching.
7229. On Letters.
7230. Of Truth.
7231. On Philosophy.
7232. Of Courage.
7233. On Verses.
7234. On Music.
7235. On Reasoning.
7236. On Wisdom.
7237. Chapter 15. SIMMIAS
7238.  

7239.  		

7240. There are also extant thirty-two others, which are considered spurious.
7241. Glaucon was a citizen of Athens. Nine dialogues of his are extant in a single volume: 

7242. Menexenus.
7243. Anaxiphemus.
7244. Cephalus.
7245. Aristophanes.
7246. Lysithides.
7247. Euthias.
7248. Amyntichus.
7249. Euripides.
7250. Phidylus.
7251. Chapter 14. GLAUCON
7252.  

7253.  

7254. There was another Simon, who wrote treatises 
7255. On Rhetoric
7256.  

7257. He was the first, so we are told, who introduced the Socratic dialogues as a form of conversation. When Pericles promised to support him and urged him to come to him, his reply was, 
7258. I will not part with my free speech for money.
7259. Others are:

7260. On Doing Ill.
7261. On Reason, or On Expediency.
7262. On Deliberation.
7263. On the Beautiful
7264. On Pretentiousness.
7265. On Greed.
7266. On Efficiency.
7267. On Diligence.
7268. Of Number.
7269. Of Being.
7270. Of Judging.
7271. On the Art of Conversation
7272. On Teaching.
7273.  

7274. Simon was a citizen of Athens and a cobbler. When Socrates came to his workshop and began to converse, he used to make notes of all that he could remember. And this is why people apply the term 
7275. What is the Beautiful
7276. On Poetry.
7277. On Music.
7278. On Knowledge.
7279. On Philosophy.
7280. On Love.
7281. On Good Eating.
7282. Of Poetry.
7283. Of Honour.
7284. On Guiding the People.
7285. On Law.
7286. Of Courage: three dialogues.
7287. Of Virtue, that it cannot be taught.
7288. On the Just: two dialogues.
7289. What is the Beautiful.
7290. On the Beautiful.
7291. Of the Good.
7292. Of the Gods.
7293. leathern
7294. Chapter 13. SIMON
7295.  

7296.  

7297. Crito was a citizen of Athens. He was most affectionate in his disposition towards Socrates, and took such care of him that none of his wants were left unsupplied. Further, his sons Critobulus, Hermogenes, Epigenes and Ctesippus were pupils of Socrates. Crito too wrote seventeen dialogues which are extant in a single volume under the titles:

7298. What is Knowledge.
7299. On Knowing, or On Science.
7300. Of Learning.
7301. Of Poetry.
7302. On Letters.
7303. Protagoras, or The Statesman.
7304. Of Wisdom.
7305. Of Society.
7306. On Arts.
7307. Of that which is Divine.
7308. On Law.
7309. On Tidiness.
7310. On Doing Ill.
7311. Of Beauty.
7312. What is expedient, or The Statesman.
7313. Concerning superfluity.
7314. That men are not made good by instruction.
7315. Chapter 12. CRITO
7316.  

7317.   

7318. I have written an epitaph on him also
7319. What Charinus says is just Stilpo’s stoppers.
7320. Meineke, 
7321. s.v.
7322. C.G.F.
7323. The Wedding
7324. Surely you know Stilpo the Megarian; old age and then disease laid him low, a formidable pair. But he found in wine a charioteer too strong for that evil team; he quaffed it eagerly and was borne along.
7325. Anth Plan.
7326. Nine dialogues of his are extant written in frigid style, 
7327. Compare the anecdote in vii. 24 from Apollonius of Tyre.
7328. Aristotle
7329. To his Daughter
7330. Epigenes
7331. Anaximenes
7332. Metrocles
7333. Chaerecrates
7334. Ptolemy
7335. Callias
7336. Aristippus
7337. Moschus
7338.   

7339. It is said that at Athens he so attracted the public that people would run together from the workshops to look at him. And when some one said, 
7340. Not I. I 
7341. vegetable
7342. but as if I were a genuine man.
7343. No, indeed,
7344. Stilpo, they stare at you as if you were some strange creature.
7345.   

7346. And once when Crates held out a fig to him when putting a question, he took the fig and ate it. Upon which the other exclaimed, 
7347. And Stilpo I saw enduring toilsome woes in Megara, where men say that the bed of Typhos is. There he would ever be wrangling, and many comrades about him, wasting time in the verbal pursuit of virtue.
7348. Anth. Plan.
7349. The pun upon 
7350. mind as well
7351. καὶ νοῦ
7352. new
7353. καινοῦ
7354. i.e.
7355. You seem to me, Crates, to want a new coat,
7356. Not only that but your question as well, for which the fig was payment in advance.
7357. O Heracles, I have lost the fig,
7358.   

7359. In character Stilpo was simple and unaffected, and he could readily adapt himself to the plain man. For instance, when Crates the Cynic did not answer the question put to him and only insulted the questioner, 
7360. that you would utter anything rather than what you ought.
7361. I knew,
7362. When Crates asked him whether the gods take delight in prayers and adorations, he is said to have replied, 
7363. Will you not scatter the crowd from me, O much-enduring elder?
7364. Don’t put such a question in the street, simpleton, but when we are alone!
7365.   

7366. And conversing upon the duty of doing good to men he made such an impression on the king that he became eager to hear him. There is a story that he once used the following argument concerning the Athena of Phidias: 
7367. Whence did Stilpo learn this? and how could he tell whether she was a god or a goddess?
7368. Θεός
7369. This then is not a god.
7370. But this at least is not by Zeus but by Phidias,
7371. Yes,
7372. Is it not Athena the daughter of Zeus who is a goddess?
7373.   

7374. Ptolemy Soter, they say, made much of him, and when he had got possession of Megara, offered him a sum of money and invited him to return with him to Egypt. But Stilpo would only accept a very moderate sum, and he declined the proposed journey, and removed to Aegina until Ptolemy set sail. Again, when Demetrius, the son of Antigonus, had taken Megara, he took measures that Stilpo’s house should be preserved and all his plundered property restored to him. But when he requested that a schedule of the lost property should be drawn up, 
7375.   

7376. He married a wife, and had a mistress named Nicarete, as Onetor has somewhere stated. He had a profligate daughter, who was married to his friend Simmias of Syracuse. And, as she would not live by rule, some one told Stilpo that she was a disgrace to him. To this he replied, 
7377. Not so, any more than I am an honour to her.
7378. He was also an authority on politics.
7379. And besides these he won over Phrasidemus the Peripatetic, an accomplished physicist, and Alcimus the rhetorician, the first orator in all Greece; Crates, too, and many others he got into his toils, and, what is more, along with these, he carried off Zeno the Phoenician.
7380.  

7381. Stilpo, a citizen of Megara in Greece, was a pupil of some of the followers of Euclides, although others make him a pupil of Euclides himself, and furthermore of Thrasymachus of Corinth, who was the friend of Ichthyas, according to Heraclides. And so far did he excel all the rest in inventiveness and sophistry that nearly the whole of Greece was attracted to 
7382. for from Theophrastus he drew away the theorist Metrodorus and Timagoras of Gela, from Aristotle the Cyrenaic philosopher, Clitarchus, and Simmias; and as for the dialecticians themselves, he gained over Paeonius from Aristides; Diphilus of Bosphorus, the son of Euphantus, and Myrmex, the son of Exaenetus, who had both come to refute him, he made his devoted adherents.
7383. Chapter 11. STILPO
7384.  

7385.   

7386. The successors of Euclides include Ichthyas, the son of Metallus, an excellent man, to whom Diogenes the Cynic has addressed one of his dialogues; Clinomachus of Thurii, who was the first to write about propositions, predications and the like; and Stilpo of Megara, a most distinguished philosopher, of whom we have now to treat.
7387. He left the banquet and, after writing a pamphlet upon the logical problem, ended his days in despondency. Upon him too I have written lines
7388. Diodorus Cronus, what sad fate 

7389. Leaving 
7390. ass.
7391. ὄνος
7392. Anth. Plan.
7393.   
	
7394. There are also other pupils of Eubulides, amongst them Apollonius surnamed Cronus. He had a pupil Diodorus, the son of Ameinias of Iasus, who was also nicknamed Cronus.
7395. Horned One.
7396. Veiled Figure
7397. Momus himself chalked up on the walls 
7398. Cronus is wise.
7399. Epigrams
7400. See Strabo xiv. 658, who says the nickname was transferred from the teacher to the more celebrated pupil.
7401.   

7402. To the school of Eubulides also belonged Euphantus of Olynthus, who wrote a history of his own times. He was besides a poet and wrote several tragedies, with which he made a great reputation at the festivals. He taught King Antigonus
7403. On Kingship
7404. F.H.G.
7405. Cf.
7406. i.e.
7407. I have composed the following lines upon him
7408. It was not then a vain tale that once an unfortunate man, while diving, pierced his foot somehow with a nail; since that great man Alexinus, before he could cross the Alpheus, was pricked by a reed and met his death.
7409. Anth. Plan.
7410.   

7411. Among other members the school of Eubulides included Alexinus of Elis, a man very fond of controversy, for which reason he was called Elenxinus. In particular he kept up a controversy with Zeno. Hermippus says of him that he left Elis and removed to Olympia, where he studied philosophy. His pupils inquired why he took up his abode here, and were 
7412. Eubulides kept up a controversy with Aristotle and said much to discredit him.
7413.   

7414. He wrote six dialogues, entitled 
7415. Eubulides the Eristic, who propounded his quibbles about horns and confounded the orators with falsely pretentious arguments, is gone with all the braggadocio of a Demosthenes.
7416. Meineke. 
7417. C.G.F.
7418. The Bald Head.
7419. The Horned One
7420. The Sorites
7421. The Veiled Figure
7422. Electra
7423. The Disguised
7424. The Liar
7425. Discourse on Love.
7426. Alcibiades
7427. Crito
7428. Phoenix
7429. Aeschines
7430. Lamprias
7431.  

7432. But I care not for these babblers, nor for anyone besides, not for Phaedo whoever he be, nor wrangling Euclides, who inspired the Megarians with a frenzied love of controversy.
7433. When he impugned a demonstration, it was not the premisses but the conclusion that he attacked. He rejected the argument from analogy, declaring that it must be taken either from similars or from 
7434. Fr. 28 D.
7435.  
	
7436. Euclides was a native of Megara on the Isthmus,
7437. Successions of Philosophers.
7438. So called to distinguish it from Megara Hyblaea, in Sicily.
7439. Chapter 10. EUCLIDES
7440.  

7441.  

7442. He was succeeded by Plistanus of Elis, and a generation later by Menedemus of Eretria and Asclepiades of Phlius, who came over from Stilpo’s school. Till then the school was known as that of Elis, but from Menedemus onward it was called the Eretrian school. Of Menedemus we shall have to speak hereafter, because he too started a new school.
7443. Phaedo was a native of Elis, of noble family, who on the fall of that city was taken captive and forcibly consigned to a house of ill-fame. But he would close the door and so contrive to join Socrates’ circle, and in the end Socrates induced Alcibiades or Crito with their friends to ransom him; from that time onwards he studied philosophy as became a free man. Hieronymus in his work 
7444. Cobblers’ Tales
7445. The Elders
7446. Antimachus
7447. Medius
7448. Nicias
7449. Simon
7450. Zopyrus
7451. On Suspense of Judgement
7452. Chapter 9. PHAEDO
7453.  

7454.  

7455.  (5) An authority upon musical composers from Terpander onwards. (6) A Stoic. (7) A writer upon the Romans. (8) A Syracusan who wrote upon Tactics. (9) A Byzantine, famous for his political speeches. (10) Another, equally famous, mentioned by Aristotle in his Epitome of Orators. (11) A Theban sculptor. (12) A painter, mentioned by Polemo. (13) An Athenian painter, of whom Menodotus writes. (14) An Ephesian painter, who is mentioned by Theophanes in his work upon painting. (15) A poet who wrote epigrams. (16) A writer on poets. (17) A physician, pupil of Athenaeus. (18) A Stoic philosopher of Chios. (19) A Milesian, also a Stoic philosopher (20) A tragic poet.
7456.   

7457. Some twenty persons have borne the name of Theodorus: (1) a Samian, the son of Rhoecus. He it was who advised laying charcoal embers under the foundations of the temple in Ephesus; for, as the ground was very damp, the ashes, being free from woody fibre, would retain a solidity which is actually proof against moisture. (2) A Cyrenaean geometer, 
7458. Such was the character of Theodorus and his surroundings. At last he retired to Cyrene, where he lived with Magas and continued to be held in high honour. The first time that he was expelled from Cyrene he is credited with a witty remark: 
7459. for driving me from Libya into Greece.
7460. Many thanks,
7461. Or, if 
7462. καλῶς
7463. It is unkind of you.
7464. κακῶς
7465. A similar anecdote is told of Diogenes and Aristippus, as mentioned above.
7466. See §68.
7467.   

7468. For a while he stayed at the court of Ptolemy the son of Lagus, and was once sent by him as ambassador to Lysimachus. And on this occasion his language was so bold that Lysimachus said, 
7469. And you, if you had known how to associate with men, would have had no use for these vegetables.
7470. You, sophist that you are, would not have wanted all these pupils if you had washed vegetables.
7471. How can you say that I ignore the gods when I regard you as hateful to the gods?
7472. It seems that you can ignore not only gods but kings as well,
7473. unless Ptolemy sends me.
7474. I never will,
7475. Take care you do not come here again,
7476. Your information 
7477. Tell me, are you not the Theodorus who was banished from Athens?
7478.   

7479. However, Theodorus, sitting on one occasion beside Euryclides, the hierophant, began, 
7480. Upon Illustrious Men
7481. when you explain them to the uninitiated.
7482. Then you violate them,
7483. Those who disclose them to the uninitiated.
7484. Tell me, Euryclides, who they are who violate the mysteries?
7485.  

7486. He appears to have been called 
7487. But, you rascal, at this rate you would allow yourself to be a jackdaw and ten thousand other things.
7488. Then it follows that you are god.
7489. And do you say you are god?
7490. Are you, Theodorus, what you declare yourself to be?
7491. θεός
7492. Yes.
7493. Again, 
7494.   

7495. He said the world was his country. Theft, adultery, and sacrilege would be allowable upon occasion, since none of these acts is by nature base, if once you have removed the prejudice against them, which is kept up in order to hold the foolish multitude together. The wise man would indulge his passions openly without the least regard to circumstances. Hence he would use such arguments as this. 
7496. Yes.
7497. And is a boy or a youth skilled in grammar useful in so far as he is skilled in grammar?
7498. Yes.
7499. Is a woman who is skilled in grammar useful in so far as she is skilled in grammar?
7500.   
	
7501. Theodorus was also a pupil of Anniceris and of Dionysius the dialectician, as Antisthenes mentions in his 
7502. Successions of Philosophers.
7503.   

7504. The Theodoreans derived their name from Theodorus, 
7505. Of the Gods
7506. A friend should be cherished not merely for his utility—for, if that fails, we should then no longer associate with him—but for the good feeling for the sake of which we shall even endure hardships. Nay, though we make pleasure the end and are annoyed when deprived of it, we shall nevertheless cheerfully endure this because of our love to our friend.
7507.   

7508. The school of Anniceris in other respects agreed with them, but admitted that friendship and gratitude and respect for parents do exist in real life, and that a good man will sometimes act out of patriotic motives. Hence, if the wise man receive annoyance, he will be none the less happy even if few pleasures accrue to him. The happiness of a friend is not in itself desirable, for it is not felt by his neighbour. Instruction is not sufficient in itself to inspire us with confidence and to make us rise superior to the opinion of the multitude. Habits must be formed because of the bad disposition which has grown up in us from the first. 
7509. This then, they say, is the advantage accruing to those who make no distinction between any of the objects which produce pleasure.
7510.   
	
7511. Slavery and freedom, nobility and low birth, honour and dishonour, are alike indifferent in a calculation of pleasure. To the fool life is advantageous, while to the wise it is a matter of indifference. The wise man will be guided in all he does by his own interests, for there is none other whom he regards as equally deserving. For supposing him to reap the greatest advantages from another, they would not be equal to 
7512.   
	
7513. They denied the possibility of happiness, for the body is infected with much suffering, while the soul shares in the sufferings of the body and is a prey to disturbance, and fortune often disappoints. From all this it follows that happiness cannot be realized. Moreover, life and death are each desirable in turn. But that there is anything naturally pleasant or unpleasant they deny; when some men are pleased and others pained by the same objects, this is owing to the lack or rarity or surfeit of such objects. Poverty and riches have no relevance to pleasure; for neither the rich nor the poor as such have any special share in pleasure. 
7514.   

7515. The school of Hegesias, as it is called, adopted the same ends, namely pleasure and pain. In their view there is no such thing as gratitude or friendship or beneficence, because it is not for themselves that we choose to do these things but simply from motives of interest, apart from which such conduct is nowhere found. 
7516. They also held that nothing is just or honourable or base by nature, but only by convention and custom. Nevertheless the good man will be deterred from 
7517.   

7518. They affirm that mental affections can be known, but not the objects from which they come; and they abandoned the study of nature because of its apparent uncertainty, but fastened on logical inquiries because of their utility. But Meleager in his second book 
7519. On the Sects
7520. On Philosophical Opinions
7521. and that wealth too is productive of pleasure, though not desirable for its own sake.
7522.   

7523. They do not accept the doctrine that every wise man lives pleasantly and every fool painfully, but regard it as true for the most part only. It is sufficient even if we enjoy but each single pleasure as it comes. They say that prudence is a good, though desirable not in itself but on account of its consequences; that we make friends from interested motives, just as we cherish any part of the body so long as we have it; that some of the virtues are found even in the foolish; that bodily training contributes to the acquisition of virtue; that the sage will not give way to envy or love or superstition, since these weaknesses are due to mere empty opinion; he will, however, feel pain and fear, these being natural affections; 
7524.   
	
7525. For they assert that the movement affecting the mind is exhausted in course of time. Again they hold that pleasure is not derived from sight or from hearing alone. At all events, we listen with pleasure to imitation of mourning, while the reality causes pain. They gave the names of absence of pleasure and absence of pain to the intermediate conditions. However, they insist that bodily pleasures are far better than mental pleasures, and bodily pains far worse than mental pains, and that this is the reason why offenders are punished with the former. For they assumed pain to be more repellent, pleasure more congenial. For these reasons they paid more attention to the body than to the mind. Hence, although pleasure is in itself desirable, yet they hold that the things which are productive of certain pleasures are often of a painful nature, the very 
7526.   
	
7527. The removal of pain, however, which is put forward in Epicurus, seems to them not to be pleasure at all, any more than the absence of pleasure is pain. For both pleasure and pain they hold to consist in motion, whereas absence of pleasure like absence of pain is not motion, since painlessness is the condition of one who is, as it were, asleep. They assert that some people may fail to choose pleasure because their minds are perverted; not all mental pleasures and pains, however, are derived from bodily counterparts. For instance, we take disinterested delight in the prosperity of our country which is as real as our delight in our own prosperity. Nor again do they admit that pleasure is derived from the memory or expectation of good, which was a doctrine of Epicurus. 
7528.   

7529. Particular pleasure is desirable for its own sake, whereas happiness is desirable not for its own sake but for the sake of particular pleasures. That pleasure is the end is proved by the fact that from our youth up we are instinctively attracted to it, and, when we obtain it, seek for nothing more, and shun nothing so much as its opposite, pain. Pleasure is good even if it proceed from the most unseemly conduct, as Hippobotus says in his work 
7530. On the Sects.
7531.   

7532. The one state is agreeable and the other repellent to all living things. However, the bodily pleasure which is the end is, according to Panaetius in his work 
7533. happiness.
7534. end
7535. On the Sects
7536.   

7537. Those then who adhered to the teaching of Aristippus and were known as Cyrenaics held the following opinions. They laid down that there are two states, pleasure and pain, the former a smooth, the latter a rough motion, and that pleasure does not differ from pleasure nor is one pleasure more pleasant than another. 
7538. The case stands thus. The disciples of Aristippus were his daughter Arete, Aethiops of Ptolemais,
7539. god.
7540. If the city was so named after a Ptolemy, it is impossible that one of its citizens could have been contemporary with the first Aristippus, the companion of Socrates. Even if Aristippus II. was the teacher of Aethiops the difficulty is not removed.
7541.   

7542. Having written his life, let me now proceed to pass in review the philosophers of the Cyrenaic school which sprang from him, although some call themselves followers of Hegesias, others followers of Anniceris, others again of Theodorus.
7543. This sentence is a sort of preface to the valuable summary of Hedonistic tenets which occupies 86-99 under four heads, Aristippus (86-93), Hegesias (93-96), Anniceris (96, 97), and Theodorus (97-99). 
7544. ἀναδιδομένην
7545. τέλος δὲ
7546. Dox. Gr.
7547. Cf.
7548. He laid down as the end the smooth motion resulting in sensation.
7549. According to Sotion in his second book, and Panaetius, the following treatises are his:

7550. On Fortune.
7551. To Socrates.
7552. To Porus.
7553. To Laïs.
7554. Three books of Occasional Writings (
7555. χρεῖαι
7556. Six books of Essays.
7557. The Exiles.
7558. The Ship-wrecked.
7559. Artabazus.
7560. Introduction to Philosophy.
7561. On Virtue.
7562. On Education.
7563.   

7564. Some also maintain that he wrote six Books of 
7565. 

7566. To one who essayed to be a counsellor.
7567. To one who considered himself slighted.
7568. Another, On the daughter of Dionysius.
7569. Another, On the Statue.
7570. An Occasional Piece to Dionysius.
7571. Another Interrogatory.
7572. An Interrogatory.
7573. To one in training for Olympia.
7574. Letter to his daughter Arete.
7575. To those who blame him for extravagant living.
7576. To those who blame him for his love of old wine and of women.
7577. To his Friends.
7578. Philomelus.
7579. To the Master of the Revels.
7580. A Dream.
7581. Hermias.
7582. To Laïs, On the Mirror.
7583. To Porus.
7584. To Laïs.
7585. To a Beggar.
7586. To the Exiles.
7587. To the shipwrecked.
7588. Artabazus.
7589.   

7590. The following books by the Cyrenaic philosopher are in circulation: a history of Libya in three Books, sent to Dionysius; one work containing twenty-five dialogues, some written in Attic, some in Doric, as follows:
7591. There have been four men called Aristippus, (1) our present subject, (2) the author of a book about 
7592. Well done, by Hera, you are quite right; you are a much better man than I am. For the quarrel was of my beginning, you make the first move to friendship.
7593. that, though I am your senior, I made the first approaches.
7594. Then remember,
7595.   

7596. he retorted:
	
7597. Agreed.
7598. Are we not to make it up and desist from vapouring, or will you wait for some one to reconcile us over the wine-bowl?
7599. On the Lives of Philosophers
7600. If a free man he come, no slave is he.
7601. From a lost play of Sophocles: Plutarch, 
7602. s.f.
7603. Vita Pomp.
7604. De audiendis poetis
7605. Dionysius met a request of his for money with the words, 
7606. Whoso betakes him to a prince’s court
	
7607. Nauck, 
7608. Soph.
7609. T.G.F.
7610. that I was not found wanting?
7611. Now you see, do you not,
7612. Pay! Pay! and then let us discuss the question;
7613. Nay, but you told me that the wise man would never be in want.
7614.   

7615. A courtesan having told him that she was with child by him, he replied, 
7616. as the others refute him.
7617. For the same reason,
7618. Well, I want money, Plato wants books.
7619. Phlegm, too, and vermin we know to be of our own begetting, but for all that, because they are useless, we cast them as far from us as possible.
7620. You are no more sure of this than if, after running through coarse rushes, you were to say you had been pricked by one in particular.
7621.   

7622. Again, when Aristippus was asked what are the subjects which handsome boys ought to learn, his reply was, 
7623. Where you got so little.
7624. Where did you get so much?
7625. Yes, but I came to Socrates for education and to Dionysius for recreation.
7626. Those which will be useful to them when they are grown up.
7627. A similar remark is ascribed to Ariston. For, he said, when Odysseus went down into the under-world, he saw nearly all the dead and made their acquaintance, but he never set eyes upon their queen herself.
7628.   

7629. He made a request to Dionysius on behalf of a friend and, failing to obtain it, fell down at his feet. And when some one jeered at him, he made reply, 
7630. for when should I be more cheerful than now that I am about to converse with Artaphernes?
7631. Yes, you simpleton,
7632. Can you be cheerful under these circumstances?
7633. It is not I who am to blame, but Dionysius who has his ears in his feet.
7634.  

7635. But some make his answer to have been, 
7636. Even amid the Bacchic revelry

7637. ib.
7638. I could not stoop to put on women’s robes.
7639. Eur. 
7640. Bacch.
7641. When I needed wisdom, I went to Socrates; now that I am in need of money, I come to you.
7642.   
	
7643. On the other accepting the invitation, Aristippus inquired, 
7644. Pour away the greater part, and carry no more than you can manage.
7645. Lectures
7646. Why, then, did you find fault? For you appear to blame the cost and not the entertainment.
7647.   

7648. When Charondas (or, as others say, Phaedo) inquired, 
7649. Can you join us today?
7650. As I would wish to die myself.
7651. It is I, unlucky wight, and the still more unlucky Persian king. But, as none of the other animals are at any disadvantage on that account, consider whether it be not the same with man. Confound the effeminates who spoil for us the use of good perfume.
7652. Who is this who reeks with unguents?
7653.   

7654. To those who censured him his defence was, 
7655. I could not find any place more suitable.
7656. I am no longer a lover of pleasure, it is you who are a lover of money.
7657. Very well, then,
7658. Wouldn’t you have bought this if you could have got it for three obols?
7659. I have Lais, not she me; and it is not abstinence from 
7660.   
	
7661. To one who accused him of living with a courtesan, he put the question, 
7662. Successions of Philosophers.
7663. Most certainly I do, for Socrates, too, when certain people sent him corn and wine, used to take a little and return all the rest; and he had the foremost men in Athens for his stewards, whereas mine is my slave Eutychides.
7664. whether the woman you live with has lived with many or with nobody.
7665. Then it makes no difference,
7666. There is no difference.
7667. Or again, between sailing in a ship in which ten thousand persons have sailed before and in one in which nobody has ever sailed?
7668. No,
7669. Why, is there any difference between taking a house in which many people have lived before and taking one in which nobody has ever lived?
7670.   

7671. Being once compelled by Dionysius to enunciate some doctrine of philosophy, 
7672. And so can a mule.
7673. and send them among strangers and you will know.
7674. Strip them both,
7675. to brag of that which a dolphin can do?
7676. Are you not ashamed,
7677. You must have wished to confer distinction on the last place.
7678. that you should learn from me what to 
7679. It would be ludicrous,
7680.   

7681. He gave his daughter Arete the very best advice, training her up to despise excess. He was asked by some one in what way his son would be the better for being educated. He replied, 
7682. Well, if I give a dinner, I hire a cook.
7683. and you will have two.
7684. Then do so,
7685. For that sum I can buy a slave.
7686. If nothing more than this, at all events, when in the theatre he will not sit down like a stone upon stone.
7687.   

7688. It happened once that he set sail for Corinth and, being overtaken by a storm, he was in great consternation. Some one said, 
7689. that what you said of me in your speech was true.
7690. Thus much,
7691. What good did Socrates do you?
7692. As those who eat most and take the most exercise are not better in health than those who restrict themselves to what they require, so too it is not wide reading but useful reading that tends to excellence.
7693. The lives at stake in the two cases are not comparable.
7694. We plain men are not alarmed, and are you philosophers turned cowards?
7695.   

7696. Some one brought him a knotty problem with the request that he would untie the knot. 
7697. So, too, physicians are in attendance on those who are sick, but no one for that reason would prefer being sick to being a physician.
7698. as it is your privilege to use foul language, so it is my privilege not to listen.
7699. Because,
7700. Why do you run away?
7701. to be a beggar than to be uneducated; the one needs money, the others need to be humanized.
7702. It is better,
7703. do you want it untied, seeing that it causes trouble enough as it is?
7704. Why, you simpleton,
7705.   

7706. When Dionysius inquired what was the reason that philosophers go to rich men’s houses, while rich men no longer visit philosophers, his reply was that 
7707. It is not going in that is dangerous, but being unable to go out.
7708. Exactly as horses that have been trained differ from untrained horses.
7709. he lives more extravagantly than I do. So that there is nothing to hinder a man living extravagantly and well.
7710. And yet,
7711. Do you think Dionysius a good man?
7712. the one know what they need while the other do not.
7713.   

7714. Diogenes, washing the dirt from his vegetables, saw him passing and jeered at him in these terms, 
7715. Should all laws be repealed, we shall go on living as we do now.
7716. If it were wrong to be extravagant, it would not be in vogue at the festivals of the gods.
7717. The ability to feel at ease in any society.
7718. And if you knew how to associate with men, you would not be washing vegetables.
7719. If you had learnt to make these your diet, you would not have paid court to kings,
7720.   

7721. And when Dionysius gave him his choice of three courtesans, he carried off all three, saying, 
7722. If the fishermen let themselves be drenched with sea-water in order to catch a gudgeon, ought I not to endure to be wetted with negus in order to take a blenny?
7723. You alone are endowed with the gift to flaunt in robes or go in rags.
7724. Paris paid dearly for giving the preference to one out of three.
7725.   
	
7726. He was capable of adapting himself to place, time and person, and of playing his part appropriately under whatever circumstances. Hence he found more favour than anybody else with Dionysius, because he could always turn the situation to good account. He derived pleasure from what was present, and did not toil to procure the enjoyment of something not present Hence Diogenes called him the king’s poodle
7727. Fifty drachmae are no more to me.
7728. Would not you have given an obol for it?
7729. Such was the delicate nature of Aristippus, who groped after error by touch.
7730. This alludes to his doctrine of sensation, sometimes called 
7731. quae potuit tactu a falso discernere verum.
7732. Adv. mathem.
7733. infra
7734. internal touch.
7735. Fr. 27 D.
7736. Or 
7737. cynic
7738. κύων,
7739. double entendre
7740. royal cynic.
7741.  

7742. Aristippus was by birth a citizen of Cyrene and, as Aeschines informs us, was drawn to Athens by the fame of Socrates. Having come forward as a lecturer or sophist, as Phanias of Eresus, the Peripatetic, informs us, he was the first of the followers of Socrates to charge fees and to send money to his master. And on one occasion the sum of twenty minae which he had sent was returned to him, Socrates declaring that the supernatural sign would not let him take it; the very offer, in fact, annoyed him. Xenophon was no friend to Aristippus; and for this reason he has made Socrates direct against Aristippus the discourse in which he denounces pleasure.
7743. In the Introduction to the 
7744. Phaedo
7745. διαβάλλων
7746. ἐκάκισεν
7747. Phaedo
7748. On the Soul
7749. On Sects
7750. Mem.
7751. Chapter 8. ARISTIPPUS (c. 435-350 B.C.)
7752.  

7753.   

7754. There are eight men who have borne the name of Aeschines: (1) our subject himself; (2) the author of handbooks of rhetoric; (3) the orator who opposed Demosthenes; (4) an Arcadian, a pupil of Isocrates; (5) a Mitylenean whom they used to call the 
7755. scourge of rhetoricians
7756. Panaetius thinks that, of all the Socratic dialogues, those by Plato, Xenophon, Antisthenes and Aeschines are genuine; he is in doubt about those ascribed to Phaedo and Euclides; but he rejects the others one and all.
7757.   
	
7758. Polycritus of Mende, in the first book of his 
7759. Story.
7760. On dishonesty.
7761. History of Dionysius
7762.   

7763. Afterwards on his return to Athens he did not venture to lecture owing to the popularity of Plato and Aristippus. But he took fees from pupils, and subsequently composed forensic speeches for aggrieved clients. This is the point of Timon’s reference to him as 
7764. Where did you get that, you thief?
7765. the might of Aeschines, that not unconvincing writer.
7766.   

7767. They say that want drove him to Sicily to the court of Dionysius, and that Plato took no notice of him, but he was introduced to Dionysius by Aristippus, and on presenting certain dialogues received gifts from him. 
7768. Persaeus indeed attributes the majority of the seven to Pasiphon of the school of Eretria, who inserted them among the dialogues of Aeschines. Moreover, Aeschines made use of the 
7769. Rhinon
7770. Telauges
7771. Alcibiades
7772. Aspasia
7773. Axiochus
7774. Callias
7775. Miltiades
7776. Alcibiades
7777. Lesser Heracles
7778. Little Cyrus
7779.  

7780. Aeschines was the son of Charinus the sausagemaker, but others make his father’s name Lysanias. He was a citizen of Athens, industrious from his birth up. For this reason he never quitted Socrates; hence Socrates’ remark, 
7781. ἀκέφαλοι
7782. Idomeneus, it may be conjectured, relied on some Socratic dialogue in which the part assigned by Plato to Crito was given to Aeschines.
7783. Only the sausage-maker’s son knows how to honour me.
7784. Chapter 7. AESCHINES (c. 400 B.C.)
7785.  

7786.   

7787. There have been seven Xenophons: the first our subject himself; the second an Athenian, brother of Pythostratus, who wrote the 
7788. Theseid
7789. In other authorities I find the statement that he flourished, along with the other Socratics, in the 89th Olympiad,
7790. This would be 424-420 b.c., a date obviously absurd as the 
7791. floruit
7792.   

7793. There is an epigram of mine on him also
7794. Albeit the countrymen of Cranaus and Cecrops condemned thee, Xenophon, to exile on account of thy friendship for Cyrus, yet hospitable Corinth welcomed thee, so well content with the delights of that city wast thou, and there didst resolve to take up thy rest.
7795. Anth. Pal.
7796. Up the steep path to fame toiled Xenophon
	
7797. Or in plain prose: 
7798. Not only for Cyrus’s sake did Xenophon go up to Persia, but because he sought the path which leads to the abode of Zeus. For, having shown that the great deeds of Greece are the outcome of his training, he recalled what a beautiful thing was the wisdom of Socrates.
7799. Anth. Pal.
7800.   
	
7801. The Constitutions of Athens and Sparta.
7802. Agesilaus.
7803. Hieron or Of Tyranny.
7804. On Revenues.
7805. A Defence of Socrates.
7806. On the Duty of a Cavalry General.
7807. On Hunting.
7808. On Horsemanship.
7809. Oeconomicus.
7810. Symposium.
7811. Memorabilia.
7812. Hellenica.
7813. Cyropaedia.
7814. The Anabasis, with a preface to each separate book but not one to the whole work.
7815.   
	
7816. He wrote some forty books in all, though the division into books is not always the same, namely:
7817. He died, according to Ctesiclides
7818. 360-359 b.c.
7819. Ctesiclides is known to us from Athenaeus, who cites his 
7820. cf.
7821. Chronology
7822.   
	
7823. Such was his life. He flourished in the fourth year of the 94th Olympiad,
7824. 401-400 b.c.
7825. Some say that he did not even shed tears, but exclaimed, 
7826. A feeble pair or triad of works, or even a greater number, such as would come from Xenophon or the might of Aeschines, that not unpersuasive writer.
7827. Fr. 26 D.
7828. Life of Theophrastus
7829. I knew my son was mortal.
7830.   
	
7831. According to Diocles in his 
7832. Lives of the Philosophers
7833.   

7834. At the same time we are told that Phylopidas the Spartan sent to him at Scillus a present of captive slaves from Dardanus, and that he disposed of them as he thought fit, and that the Elians marched against Scillus, and owing to the slowness of the Spartans captured the place, whereupon his sons retired to Lepreum with a few of the servants, while Xenophon himself, who had previously gone to Elis, went next to Lepreum to join his sons, and then made his escape with them from Lepreum to Corinth and took up his abode there. Meanwhile the Athenians passed a decree to assist Sparta, and Xenophon sent his sons to Athens to serve in the army in defence of Sparta. 
7835.   

7836. He then left Agesilaus and made his way to Scillus, a place in the territory of Elis not far from the city. According to Demetrius of Magnesia he was accompanied by his wife Philesia, and, in a speech written for the freedman whom Xenophon prosecuted for neglect of duty, Dinarchus mentions that his two 
7837.   

7838. After the expedition and the misfortunes which overtook it in Pontus and the treacheries of Seuthes, the king of the Odrysians, he returned to Asia, having enlisted the troops of Cyrus as mercenaries in the service of Agesilaus, the Spartan king, to whom he was devoted beyond measure. About this time he was banished by the Athenians for siding with Sparta. When he was in Ephesus and had a sum of money, he entrusted one half of it to Megabyzus, the priest of Artemis, to keep until his return, or if he should never return, to apply to the erection of a statue in honour of the goddess. But the other half he sent in votive offerings to Delphi. Next he came to Greece with Agesilaus, who had been recalled to carry on the war against Thebes. And the Lacedaemonians conferred on him a privileged position.
7839.   

7840. Xenophon showed this letter to Socrates and asked his advice, which was that he should go to Delphi and consult the oracle. Xenophon complied and came into the presence of the god. He inquired, not 
7841. Anab.
7842. in what way
7843. whether
7844.   

7845. He gained the friendship of Cyrus in the following way. He had an intimate friend named Proxenus, a Boeotian, a pupil of Gorgias of Leontini and a friend of Cyrus. Proxenus, while living in Sardis at the court of Cyrus, wrote a letter to Xenophon at Athens, inviting him to come and seek the friendship of Cyrus. 
7846. and said in reference to him, 
7847. It is sweeter for me to gaze on Clinias than on all the fair sights in the world. I would be content to be blind to everything else if I could but gaze on him alone. I am vexed with the night and with sleep because I cannot see Clinias, and most grateful to the day and the sun for showing him to me.
7848.  

7849. Aristippus, in the fourth book of his work 
7850. On the Luxury of the Ancients
7851. Xenophon, the son of Gryllus, was a citizen of Athens and belonged to the deme Erchia; he was 
7852. Memorabilia.
7853. and learn.
7854. Then follow me,
7855. And where do men become good and honourable?
7856. Chapter 6. XENOPHON (426?-354 B.C.)
7857.  

7858.   

7859. Of those who bear the name of Socrates there is one, a historian, who wrote a geographical work upon Argos; another, a Peripatetic philosopher of Bithynia; a third, a poet who wrote epigrams; lastly, Socrates of Cos, who wrote on the names of the gods.
7860. Of those who succeeded him and were called Socratics
7861. The text would perhaps be clearer if we transposed thus: 
7862. τῶν δὲ διαδεξαμένων αὐτὸν οἱ κορυφαιότατοι μὲν Πλάτων, Ξενοφῶν, Ἀντισθένης. τῶν δὲ λεγομένων Σωκρατικῶν οἱ διασημότατοι τέσσαρες, Αἰσχίνης, Φαίδων, Εὐκλείδης, Ἀρίστιππος κτλ ... εἶθʼ οὔτω περὶ Πλάτωνος· ἐπεὶ κατάρχει τῶν φερομένων δέκα αἱρέσεων.
7863.   

7864. He was sharply criticized, according to Aristotle 
7865. On Poetry
7866. I have written verses about him too, as follows
7867. Drink then, being in Zeus’s palace, O Socrates; for truly did the god pronounce thee wise, being wisdom himself; for when thou didst frankly take the hemlock at the hands of the Athenians, they themselves drained it as it passed thy lips.
7868. Anth. Pal.
7869.   

7870. Aristotle relates that a magician came from Syria to Athens and, among other evils with which he threatened Socrates, predicted that he would come to a violent end.
7871. In my opinion Socrates discoursed on physics as well as on ethics, since he holds some conversations about providence, even according to Xenophon, who, however, declares that he only discussed ethics. But Plato, after mentioning Anaxagoras and certain other physicists in the 
7872. 26 d.
7873. Apology
7874. Both were pupils of Anaxagoras, I mean Socrates and Euripides, who was born in the first year of the 75th Olympiad in the archonship of Calliades.
7875. 480-479 b.c.
7876.   
	
7877. He was born, according to Apollodorus in his 
7878. 400-399 b.c.
7879. 469-468 b.c.
7880. Chronology
7881. Euripides upbraids them thus in his 
7882. Nauck, 
7883. Eur.
7884. 2
7885. T.G.F.
7886. Ye have slain, have slain, the all-wise, the innocent, the Muses’ nightingale.
7887. Palamedes
7888.   

7889. So he was taken from among men; and not long afterwards the Athenians felt such remorse that they shut up the training grounds and gymnasia. They banished the other accusers but put Meletus to death; they honoured Socrates with a bronze statue, the work of Lysippus, which they placed in the hall of processions. And no sooner did Anytus visit Heraclea than the people of that town expelled him on that very day. Not only in the case of Socrates but in very many others the Athenians repented in this way. For they fined Homer (so says Heraclides
7890. Most probably Heraclides of Pontus. This remarkable assertion may have occurred in one of his dialogues, and was perhaps not meant to be taken seriously.
7891.   

7892. Sentence of death was passed, with an accession of eighty fresh votes. He was put in prison, and a 
7893. Of virtue as the jury-courts decide.
7894. Judge not, ye men of Corinth,
7895. Anth. Plan.
7896. All hail, Apollo, Delos’ lord! 

7897. Phaedo.
7898. When this caused an uproar among the judges, he said, 
7899. Considering my services, I assess the penalty at maintenance in the Prytaneum at the public expense.
7900.   

7901. Justus of Tiberias in his book entitled 
7902. Get down! Get down!
7903. Though I am the youngest, men of Athens, of all who ever rose to address you
7904. The Wreath
7905. Lysias said, 
7906. would not fine raiment and fine shoes be just as unsuitable to me?
7907. Well,
7908. If it is a fine speech, how can it fail to suit you?
7909.   

7910. The affidavit in the case, which is still preserved, says Favorinus, in the 
7911. A fine speech, Lysias; it is not, however, suitable to me.
7912. This indictment and affidavit is sworn by Meletus, the son of Meletus of Pitthos, against Socrates, the son of Sophroniscus of Alopece: Socrates is guilty of refusing to recognize the gods recognized by the state, and of introducing other new divinities. He is also guilty of corrupting the youth. The penalty demanded is death.
7913. Metron
7914.   
	
7915. Antisthenes in his 
7916. Memorabilia
7917. Apology
7918. Successions of Philosophers
7919.   

7920. The indictment was brought by Meletus, and the speech was delivered by Polyeuctus, according to Favorinus in his 
7921. The confusion in the last sentence of 38 is due to the insertion in the wrong place of two extracts, one from Favorinus and the other from Hermippus. When these are removed, the parts assigned to the three accusers, Meletus, Anytus and Lycon, become clear: 
7922. ἀπηνέγκατο μὲν οὖν τὴν γραφὴν ὁ Μέλητος, εἶπε δὲ τὴν δίκην Ἄνυτος, προητοίμασε δὲ πάντα Λύκων ὁ δημαγωγός.
7923. Miscellaneous History.
7924. For this he was most envied; and especially because he would take to task those who thought highly of themselves, proving them to be fools, as to be sure he treated Anytus, according to Plato’s 
7925. 95 a.
7926. Meno
7927.   

7928. These and the like were his words and deeds, to 
7929. Of all men living Socrates most wise.
7930. but just as, when they have mastered these, they can easily cope with the rest, so I in the society of Xanthippe shall learn to adapt myself to the rest of the world.
7931. in order that while we are sparring each of you may join in with 
7932. Well done, Xanthippe!
7933. Go it, Socrates!
7934. Yes, by Zeus,
7935. is the mother of my children.
7936. And Xanthippe,
7937. but they furnish me with eggs and goslings.
7938. No,
7939.   

7940. When Antisthenes turned his cloak so that the tear in it came into view, 
7941. as to the continued rattle of a windlass. And you do not mind the cackle of geese.
7942. Nay, I have got used to it,
7943. Did I not say that Xanthippe’s thunder would end in rain?
7944. No, for it takes two to make a quarrel.
7945. Don’t you find so-and-so very offensive?
7946. your vanity through your cloak.
7947. I see,
7948.   

7949. To one who said, 
7950. True, for he has never learnt to speak well.
7951. is my own good enough to live in but not to die in?
7952. What,
7953. The proposal that Socrates should escape from prison was attributed to Aeschines as well as to Crito (see below, 60). The Homeric citation occurs in Plato’s 
7954. Crito
7955. On the third day I shall die.
7956. On the third day thou shalt come to the fertile fields of Phthia;
7957. Hom. 
7958. Il.
7959. Why, would you have me suffer justly?
7960. You suffer unjustly,
7961. So are they, by nature.
7962. You are condemned by the Athenians to die,
7963.   

7964. He had invited some rich men and, when Xanthippe said she felt ashamed of the dinner, 
7965. You are not sorry for that, are you?
7966. Nay, do you not see that you are offering me the greatest gift of all?
7967. I am a poor man and have nothing else to give, but I offer you myself,
7968. for if they are reasonable they will put up with it, and if they are good for nothing, we shall not trouble ourselves about them.
7969. Never mind,
7970.   

7971. On hearing the line of Euripides’ play 
7972. Whichever you do you will repent it.
7973. ’Tis best to let her roam at will,
7974. This line, now found in Eur. 
7975. ΑΥΓΗ.
7976. s.v.
7977. 2
7978. T.G.F.
7979. cf.
7980. Auge
7981. Electra
7982. Auge
7983.   

7984. Moreover, in his old age he learnt to play the lyre, declaring that he saw no absurdity in learning a new accomplishment. As Xenophon relates in the 
7985. In doing nothing to excess.
7986. Symposium
7987.   

7988. Again, when Charmides offered him some slaves in order that he might derive an income from them, he declined the offer; and according to some he scorned the beauty of Alcibiades. He would extol leisure as the best of possessions, according to Xenophon in the 
7989. Nay, did you expect a man so noble to have been born of two Athenian parents?
7990. Symposium.
7991.   

7992. He used to say it was strange that, if you asked a man how many sheep he had, he could easily tell you the precise number; whereas he could not name his friends or say how many he had, so slight was the value he set upon them. Seeing Euclides keenly interested in eristic arguments, he said to him: 
7993. Euthydemus
7994. You will be able to get on with sophists, Euclides, but with men not at all.
7995. He roused Iphicrates the general to a martial spirit by showing him how the fighting cocks of Midias the barber flapped their wings in defiance of those of Callias. Glauconides demanded that he should be acquired for the state as if he were some pheasant or peacock.
7996.   

7997. He showed equal ability in both directions, in persuading and dissuading men; thus, after conversing with Theaetetus about knowledge, he sent him away, as Plato says, fired with a divine impulse; but when Euthyphro had indicted his father for manslaughter, Socrates, after some conversation with him upon piety, diverted him from his purpose. Lysis, again, he turned, by exhortation, into a most virtuous character. For he had the skill to draw his arguments from facts. And when his son 
7998. Mem.
7999.   

8000. Ameipsias too, when he puts him on the stage wearing a cloak, says
8001. 174 a.
8002. Symposium
8003. Because you stalk along the streets, rolling your eyes, and endure, barefoot, many a hardship, and gaze up at us [the clouds].
8004. Clouds
8005. 
	
8006. A.
8007. B.
8008. A.
8009. C.G.F.
8010. Connus
8011. Sc.
8012.   

8013. He could afford to despise those who scoffed at him. He prided himself on his plain living, and never asked a fee from anyone. He used to say that he most enjoyed the food which was least in need of condiment, and the drink which made him feel the least hankering for some other drink; and that he was nearest to the gods in that he had the fewest wants. This may be seen from the Comic poets, who in the act of ridiculing him give him high praise. Thus Aristophanes
8014. O man that justly desirest great wisdom, how blessed will be thy life amongst Athenians and Greeks, retentive of memory and thinker that thou art, with endurance of toil for thy character; never art thou weary whether standing or walking, 
8015. Clouds
8016.   

8017. Aristotle says that he married two wives: his first wife was Xanthippe, by whom he had a son, Lamprocles; his second wife was Myrto, the daughter of Aristides the Just, whom he took without a dowry. By her he had Sophroniscus and Menexenus. Others make Myrto his first wife; while some writers, including Satyrus and Hieronymus of Rhodes, affirm that they were both his wives at the same time. For they say that the Athenians were short of men and, wishing to increase the population, passed a decree permitting a citizen to marry one Athenian woman and have children by another; and that Socrates accordingly did so.
8018.   

8019. He showed his contempt for Archelaus of Macedon and Scopas of Cranon and Eurylochus of Larissa by refusing to accept their presents or to go to their court. He was so orderly in his way of life that on 
8020. Often when he looked at the multitude of wares exposed for sale, he would say to himself, 
8021. The purple robe and silver’s shine

8022. Stobaeus, 
8023. Florilegium
8024. How many things I can do without!
8025.   

8026. He was a man of great independence and dignity of character. Pamphila in the seventh book of her 
8027. Suppose, then, I wanted shoes and you offered me a whole hide to make a pair with, would it not be ridiculous in me to take it?
8028. Commentaries
8029. His strength of will and attachment to the democracy are evident from his refusal to yield to Critias and his colleagues when they ordered him to bring the wealthy Leon of Salamis before them for execution, and further from the fact that he alone voted for the acquittal of the ten generals; and again from the facts that when he had the opportunity to escape from the prison he declined to do so, and that he rebuked his friends for weeping over his fate, and addressed to them his most memorable discourses in the prison.
8030.   
	
8031. For in the general flight of the Athenians he personally retired at his ease, quietly turning round from time to time and ready to defend himself in case he were attacked. Again, he served at Potidaea, whither he had gone by sea, as land communications were interrupted by the war
8032. Memorabilia.
8033. On the Luxury of the Ancients.
8034. The reason assigned for an expedition to Potidaea by sea will not hold. Communications between Athens and Thrace were, as a rule, made by sea. Moreover, the siege of Potidaea began in 432 b.c., the year before the outbreak of the Peloponnesian war. It has been suggested that the words 
8035. Ἰσθμόν
8036. διὰ θαλάττης ... κωλύοντος
8037.   

8038. He took care to exercise his body and kept in good condition. At all events he served on the expedition to Amphipolis; and when in the battle of Delium Xenophon had fallen from his horse, he stepped in and saved his life. 
8039. Unlike most philosophers, he had no need to travel, except when required to go on an expedition. The rest of his life he stayed at home and engaged all the more keenly in argument with anyone who would converse with him, his aim being not to alter his opinion but to get at the truth. They relate that Euripides gave him the treatise of Heraclitus and asked his opinion upon it, and that his reply was, 
8040. The part I understand is excellent, and so too is, I dare say, the part I do not understand; but it needs a Delian diver to get to the bottom of it.
8041.   

8042. that he discussed moral questions in the workshops and the market-place, being convinced that the study of nature is no concern of ours; and that he claimed that his inquiries embraced

8043. Should I have taken the law of a donkey, supposing that he had kicked me?
8044. Whatso’er is good or evil in an house
8045. Hom. 
8046. Od.
8047.   
	
8048. Demetrius of Byzantium relates that Crito removed him from his workshop and educated him, being struck by his beauty of soul; 
8049. And Aristophanes attacks him in his plays for making the worse appear the better reason. For Favorinus in his 
8050. Possibly the reference is to the same citation as in 19 which Diogenes Laertius may have found independently in two of his authorities. Diogenes himself notices the agreement between Favorinus and Idomeneus of Lampsacus, a much earlier author, for he was a disciple of Epicurus, whom he knew from 310 to 270 b.c.
8051. Miscellaneous History
8052.   

8053. According to some authors he was a pupil of Anaxagoras, and also of Damon, as Alexander states in his 
8054. From these diverged the sculptor, a prater about laws, the enchanter of Greece, inventor of subtle arguments, the sneerer who mocked at fine speeches, half-Attic in his mock humility.
8055. Fr. 25 d.
8056. Silli
8057. Successions of Philosophers.
8058.  

8059. Socrates was the son of Sophroniscus, a sculptor, and of Phaenarete, a midwife, as we read in the 
8060. ’Tis he composes for Euripides

8061. The Clouds
8062. A mistake for Teleclides: see Meineke, 
8063. σοφάς.
8064. Clouds
8065. τὰς σωκρατογόμφους
8066. sq.
8067. Comicorum Graecorum Fragmenta
8068. 
	
8069. B.
8070. A.
8071. Meineke, 
8072. C.G.F.
8073. The Captives
8074. an engine riveted by Socrates.
8075. This new play of Euripides is 
8076. There is a pun in 
8077. φρύγανα
8078. Φρύγες
8079. The Phrygians
8080. So Cobet for vulgate Mnesilochus, retained by Meineke, 
8081. C.G.F.
8082. Theaetetus
8083. Chapter 5. SOCRATES (469-399 B.C.)
8084.  
	
8085.  

8086. There have been three other men who bore the name of Archelaus: the topographer who described the countries traversed by Alexander; the author 
8087. His theory is to this effect. Water is melted by heat and produces on the one hand earth in so far as by the action of fire it sinks and coheres, while on the other hand it generates air in so far as it overflows on all sides. Hence the earth is confined by the air, and the air by the circumambient fire. Living things, he holds, are generated from the earth when it is heated and throws off slime of the consistency of milk to serve as a sort of nourishment, and in this same way the earth produced man. He was the first who explained the production of sound as being the concussion of the air, and the formation of the sea in hollow places as due to its filtering through the earth. He declared the sun to be the largest of the heavenly bodies and the universe to be unlimited.
8088.  

8089. Archelaus, the son of Apollodorus, or as some say 
8090. Ἀναξαγόρας Ἡγησιβούλου Κλαζομένιος. οὗτος μετήγαγεν ἀπὸ τῆς Ἰωνίας Ἁθήναζε τὴν διατριβήν.
8091. μεθʼ οὗ
8092. Strom.
8093. οὗτος.
8094. Chapter 4. ARCHELAUS
8095. c.
8096. Diels (
8097. Phys. Opin.
8098. Ref. Haer.
8099. Dox. Gr.
8100.  
	
8101.   

8102. There have been three other men who bore the name of Anaxagoras [of whom no other writer gives a complete list]. The first was a rhetorician of the school of Isocrates; the second a sculptor, mentioned by Antigonus; the third a grammarian, pupil of Zenodotus.
8103. I also have written an epigram upon him
8104. Anth. Pal.
8105. So, when he died, the people of Lampsacus gave him honourable burial and placed over his grave the following inscription
8106. Here Anaxagoras, who in his quest
	
8107. Anth. Pal.
8108.   
	
8109. He was supposed to have borne Democritus a grudge because he had failed to get into communication with him.
8110. In ix. 34, 35 the statement that Democritus was hostile to Anaxagoras and criticized his doctrines is ascribed to Favorinus, and, as the motive alleged is similar, Favorinus may also be the source of the statement of ii. 14.
8111. Hieronymus in the second book of his 
8112. Scattered Notes
8113.   
	
8114. When news was brought him that he was condemned and his sons were dead, his comment on the sentence was, 
8115. I am a pupil of Anaxagoras; do not then be carried away by slanders and put him to death. Let me prevail upon you to release him.
8116. Well,
8117. Lives
8118. On Old Age.
8119. I knew that my children were born to die.
8120. Long ago nature condemned both my judges and myself to death
8121.   

8122. Of the trial of Anaxagoras different accounts are given. Sotion in his 
8123. Lives
8124. Succession of the Philosophers
8125. and says that Anaxagoras declared the whole firmament to be made of stones; that the 
8126. This version of the story agrees with that of Plutarch in his Life of Lysander, § 12 
8127. τοῦ παντός.
8128. λέγεται δὲ
8129.   

8130. Favorinus in his 
8131. We know no archon Demylus. Various dates are suggested by critics; the years of (1) Demotion, archon 470, (2) Lysistratus, 467, (3) Diphilus, 442 b.c. The letters 
8132. i.e.
8133. millstone,
8134. -μυλου
8135. History
8136. Silenus of Calatia, who served in the Hannibalic war, wrote a History quoted by Cicero, Livy and Pliny; also a work on Sicily, 
8137. F.H.G.
8138. From Plutarch’s Life of Nicias, c. 23, and Clement of Alexandria (
8139. was the first to bring out a book written by himself.
8140. διδασκαλία καὶ γραφή.
8141. ‹μετὰ› διαγραφῆς) ἐκδοῦναι βιβλίον ἱστοροῦσιν
8142. διὰ γραφῆς
8143. Strom.
8144. Miscellaneous History
8145. To one who complained that he was dying in a foreign land, his answer was, 
8146. The descent to Hades is much the same from whatever place we start.
8147.   

8148. There is a story that he predicted the fall of the meteoric stone at Aegospotami, which he said would fall from the sun.
8149. Anaxagoras, whose death falls in the fifth century, 
8150. circa
8151. A costly tomb is an image of an estate turned into stone.
8152. Not I, but they miss mine.
8153. You miss the society of the Athenians?
8154. To study sun and moon and heavens.
8155. Yes, it only needs time.
8156. Nauck, 
8157. Eur.
8158. 2
8159. T.G.F.
8160. golden clod.
8161. Phathon
8162. This version agrees with Pliny, 
8163. celebrant Graeci Anaxagoram Clazomenium Olympiadis septuagesimae octavae secundo anno praedixisse caelestium litterarum scientia quibus diebus saxum casurum esset e sole.
8164. Nat. Hist.
8165.   

8166. Animals were produced from moisture, heat, and an earthy substance; later the species were propagated by generation from one another, males from the right side, females from the left.
8167. In the beginning the stars moved in the sky as in a revolving dome, so that the celestial pole which is always visible was vertically overhead; but subsequently the pole took its inclined position. He held the Milky Way to be a reflection of the light of stars which are not shone upon by the sun; comets to be a conjunction of planets which emit flames; shooting-stars to be a sort of sparks thrown off by the air. He held that winds arise when the air is rarefied by the sun’s heat; that thunder is a clashing together of the clouds, lightning their violent friction; an earthquake a subsidence of air into the earth.
8168.   

8169. He declared the sun to be a mass of red-hot metal and to be larger than the Peloponnesus, though others ascribe this view to Tantalus; he declared that there were dwellings on the moon, and moreover 
8170.   

8171. He is said to have been twenty years old at the invasion of Xerxes and to have lived seventy-two years. Apollodorus in his 
8172. i.e.
8173. 428 b.c.
8174. 500-497 b.c.
8175. Chronology
8176. For, when they accused him of neglecting it, he replied, 
8177. I am greatly concerned with my fatherland,
8178. Gently,
8179. Have you no concern in your native land?
8180. Why then do you not look after it?
8181.  
	
8182. He was eminent for wealth and noble birth, and furthermore for magnanimity, in that he gave up his patrimony to his relations. 
8183. Anaxagoras, the son of Hegesibulus or Eubulus, was a native of Clazomenae. He was a pupil of Anaximenes, and was the first who set mind above 
8184. Then, I ween, there is Anaxagoras, a doughty champion, whom they call Mind, because forsooth his was the mind which suddenly woke up and fitted closely together all that had formerly been in a medley of confusion.
8185. Fr. 24 d.
8186. Silli
8187. All things were together; then came Mind and set them in order.
8188. Chapter 3. ANAXAGORAS
8189. Diels (
8190. Aristarchus of Samos
8191. Phys. Opin.
8192. Ref. Haer.
8193. Dox. Gr.
8194.  
	
8195.   

8196. You were better advised than the rest of us when you left Samos for Croton, where you live in peace. For the sons of Aeaces work incessant mischief, and Miletus is never without tyrants. The king of the Medes is another terror to us, not indeed so long as we are willing to pay tribute; but the Ionians are on the point of going to war with the Medes to secure their common freedom, and once we are at war we have no more hope of safety. How then can Anaximenes any longer think of studying the heavens when threatened with destruction or slavery? Meanwhile you find favour with the people of Croton and with the other Greeks in Italy; and pupils come to you even from Sicily.
8197. Anaximenes to Pythagoras
8198.   

8199. And again:
8200. Thales, the son of Examyas, has met an unkind fate in his old age. He went out from the court of 
8201. Anaximenes to Pythagoras
8202.  

8203. Anaximenes the philosopher wrote the following letters:
8204. There have been two other men named Anaximenes, both of Lampsacus, the one a rhetorician who wrote on the achievements of Alexander, the other, the nephew of the rhetorician, who was a historian.
8205. According to Apollodorus he was contemporary with the taking of Sardis and died in the 63rd Olympiad.
8206. 528-525 b.c.
8207. Anaximenes, the son of Eurystratus, a native of Miletus, was a pupil of Anaximander. According to some, he was also a pupil of Parmenides. He took for his first principle air or that which is unlimited. He held that the stars move round the earth but do not go under it. He writes simply and unaffectedly in the Ionic dialect.
8208. Chapter 2. ANAXIMENES
8209. c.
8210. flor.
8211. Diels (
8212. Phys. Opin.
8213. Strom.
8214. Ref. Haer.
8215. op. cit.
8216.  
	
8217.   

8218. There is another Anaximander, also of Miletus, a historian who wrote in the Ionic dialect.
8219. His exposition of his doctrines took the form of a summary which no doubt came into the hands, among others, of Apollodorus of Athens. He says in his 
8220. Then to please the boys I must improve my singing.
8221. There is a chronological difficulty in this statement of Diogenes, for Polycrates of Samos died in 522. The difficulty, however, disappears if the statement be taken to refer not to Anaximander but to Pythagoras.
8222. 547-546 b.c.
8223. Chronology
8224. He was the first to draw on a map the outline of land and sea, and he constructed a globe as well.
8225.   

8226. He was the first inventor of the gnomon and set it up for a sundial in Lacedaemon,
8227. Miscellaneous History
8228. But see Herodotus ii. 109, who makes the Babylonians the inventors.
8229. Anaximander, the son of Praxiades, was a native of Miletus. He laid down as his principle and element that which is unlimited without defining it as air or water or anything else. He held that the parts undergo change, but the whole is unchangeable; that the earth, which is of spherical shape, lies in the midst, occupying the place of a centre; that the moon, shining with borrowed light, derives its illumination from the sun; further, that the sun is as large as the earth and consists of the purest fire.
8230. These astronomical discoveries belong properly to Anaxagoras.
8231. Chapter 1. ANAXIMANDER
8232. With this Life Diels (
8233. Phys. Opin.
8234. Strom.
8235. Ref. Haer.
8236. Dox. Gr.
8237. BOOK II
8238.  

8239.  

8240.   

8241. So much for those who are called the Sages, with whom some writers also class Pisistratus the tyrant. I must now proceed to the philosophers and start with the philosophy of Ionia. Its founder was Thales, and Anaximander was his pupil.
8242. May yours be a happy death when your time comes. Since I received your letter, I have been attacked by disease. I am infested with vermin and subject to a violent fever with shivering fits. I have therefore given instructions to my servants to carry my writing to you after they have buried me. I would like you to publish it, provided that you and 
8243. Pherecydes to Thales
8244. This forgery is easily analysed. There is the tradition of the malady which proved fatal to Pherecydes ( 
8245. Vit. Pyth.
8246. cf.
8247.   

8248. He lived in the 59th Olympiad. He wrote the following letter:
8249. when his former beauty was consumed by vermin, gave orders that he should be taken straight to the Magnesian land in order that he might give victory to the noble Ephesians. There was an oracle, which he alone knew, enjoining this; and there he died among them. It seems then it is a true tale; if anyone is truly wise, he brings blessings both in his lifetime and when he is no more.
8250.   

8251. There is also an epigram of my own in the Pherecratean metre
8252. The famous Pherecydes, to whom Syros gave birth, 
8253. Anth. Plan.
8254. With manly worth endowed and modesty,
	
8255. Fr. 4 Bergk.
8256. All knowledge that a man may have had I; 

8257.   

8258. Duris in the second book of his 
8259. Anth. Pal.
8260. Horae
8261. There is preserved a work by Pherecydes of Syros, a work which begins thus: 
8262. Zeus and Time and Earth were from all eternity, and Earth was called 
8263. γέρας
8264. γῆ
8265. Γῆ
8266. Andron of Ephesus says that there were two natives of Syros who bore the name of Pherecydes: the one was an astronomer, the other was the son of Babys and a theologian, teacher of Pythagoras. Eratosthenes, however, says that there was only one Pherecydes of Syros, the other Pherecydes being an Athenian and a genealogist.
8267. He maintained that the divine name for 
8268. θυωρός
8269. table
8270.   

8271. The man gave the message; a day later the Ephesians attacked and defeated the Magnesians; they found Pherecydes dead and buried him on the spot with great honours. Another 
8272. all is going well.
8273. getting worse,
8274. My skin tells its own tale,
8275. On Pythagoras and his School
8276.   

8277. Hermippus relates that on the eve of war between Ephesus and Magnesia he favoured the cause of the Ephesians, and inquired of some one passing by where he came from, and on receiving the reply 
8278. Drag me by the legs and place me in the territory of Magnesia; and take a message to your countrymen that after their victory they must bury me there, and that this is the last injunction of Pherecydes.
8279. From Ephesus,
8280. He bade the Lacedaemonians set no store by gold or silver, as Theopompus says in his 
8281. Mirabilia.
8282.  

8283. Many wonderful stories are told about him. He was walking along the beach in Samos and saw a ship running before the wind; he exclaimed that in no long time she would go down, and, even as he watched her, down she went. And as he was drinking water which had been drawn up from a well he predicted that on the third day there would be an earthquake; which came to pass. And on his way from Olympia he advised Perilaus, his host in Messene, to move thence with all belonging to him; but Perilaus could not be persuaded, and Messene was afterwards taken.
8284. These stories no doubt come from Theopompus, whose work on 
8285. Marvels
8286. Pherecydes, the son of Babys, and a native of Syros according to Alexander in his 
8287. Successions of Philosophers,
8288. Chapter 11. PHERECYDES (flor. c. 540 B.C.)
8289.  

8290.   

8291. There have been two other men named Epimenides, namely, the genealogist and another who wrote in Doric Greek about Rhodes.
8292. And he became old in as many days as he had slept years; for this too is stated by Theopompus. Myronianus in his 
8293. Parallels
8294. Theopompus relates in his 
8295. Epimenides, not a temple to the Nymphs but to Zeus,
8296. Mirabilia
8297.   

8298. This is the tenor of the letter. But Demetrius reports a story that he received from the Nymphs food of a special sort and kept it in a cow’s hoof; that he took small doses of this food, which was entirely absorbed into his system, and he was never seen to eat. Timaeus mentions him in his second book. Some writers say that the Cretans sacrifice to him 
8299.   

8300. Courage, my friend. For if Pisistratus had attacked the Athenians while they were still serfs and before they had good laws, he would have secured power in perpetuity by the enslavement of the citizens. But, as it is, he is reducing to subjection men who are no cowards, men who with pain and shame remember Solon’s warning and will never endure to be under a tyrant. But even should Pisistratus himself hold down the city, I do not expect that his power will be continued to his children; for it is hard to contrive that men brought up as free men under the best laws should be slaves. But, instead of going on your travels, come quietly to Crete to me; for here you will have no monarch to fear, whereas, if some of his friends should fall in with you while you are travelling about, I fear you may come to some harm.
8301. Epimenides to Solon
8302.   

8303. There is extant a letter of his to Solon the lawgiver, containing a scheme of government which Minos drew up for the Cretans. But Demetrius of Magnesia, in his work on poets and writers of the same name, endeavours to discredit the letter on the ground that it is late and not written in the Cretan dialect but in Attic, and New Attic too. However, I have found another letter by him which runs as follows:
8304. He also compiled prose works 
8305. This is the meaning of 
8306. ἐρημάζειν,
8307. ἐκπατεῖν
8308. On Poets.
8309. On Minos and Rhadamanthus
8310. On Sacrifices and the Cretan Constitution
8311.   

8312. He wrote a poem 
8313. These long poems may have been written by Lobon himself on the Hesiodic model; or Lobon may merely have affirmed their existence in his treatise 
8314. On Poets.
8315. Theogony
8316. On the Birth of the Curetes and Corybantes
8317. So he returned home and soon afterwards died. According to Phlegon in his work 
8318. On Longevity
8319. The Athenians voted him a talent in money and a ship to convey him back to Crete. The money he declined, but he concluded a treaty of friendship and alliance between Cnossos and Athens.
8320.   

8321. Hence, when the Athenians were attacked by pestilence, and the Pythian priestess bade them purify the city, they sent a ship commanded by Nicias, son of Niceratus, to Crete to ask the help of Epimenides. And he came in the 46th Olympiad,
8322. 595-592 b.c.
8323. So he became famous throughout Greece, and was believed to be a special favourite of heaven.
8324.  

8325. Epimenides, according to Theopompus and many other writers, was the son of Phaestius; some, however, make him the son of Dosiadas, others of Agesarchus. He was a native of Cnossos in Crete, though from wearing his hair long he did not look like a Cretan. One day he was sent into the country by his father to look for a stray sheep, and at noon he turned aside out of the way, and went to sleep in a cave, where he slept for fifty-seven years. After this he got up and went in search of the sheep, thinking he had been asleep only a short time. And when he could not find it, he came to the farm, and found everything changed and another owner in possession. Then he went back to the town in utter perplexity; and there, on entering his own house, he fell in with people who wanted to know who he was. At length he found his younger brother, now an old man, and learnt the truth from him. 
8326. Chapter 10. EPIMENIDES (c. 600 B.C.)
8327.  

8328.   

8329. He died at the age of ninety-seven.
8330. He used to say we should not investigate facts by the light of arguments, but arguments by the light of facts; for the facts were not put together to fit the arguments, but the arguments to fit the facts.
8331. At any rate he was seen in Lacedaemon laughing to himself in a lonely spot; and when some one suddenly appeared and asked him why he laughed when no one was near, he replied, 
8332. 343 a.
8333. Protagoras
8334. That is just the reason.
8335.   

8336. Myson is mentioned by Hipponax, the words being
8337. Historical Gleanings
8338. And Myson, whom Apollo’s self proclaimed

8339. Fr. 45 Bergk.
8340. Others cite the first line of the oracle differently, 
8341. Successions of Philosophers
8342. Myson of Etis
8343. Myson of Chen in Etis,
8344.  

8345. Myson was the son of Strymon, according to Sosicrates, who quotes Hermippus as his authority, and a native of Chen, a village in the district of Oeta or Laconia; and he is reckoned one of the Seven Sages. They say that his father was a tyrant. We are told by some one that, when Anacharsis inquired if there were anyone wiser than himself, the Pythian priestess gave the response which has already been quoted in the Life of Thales as her reply to a question by Chilon
8346. It is just the time to repair it,
8347. Myson, this is not the season for the plough.
8348. Myson of Chen in Oeta; this is he

8349. Anth. Plan.
8350. Chapter 9. MYSON (c. 600 B.C.)
8351.  

8352.   
	
8353. I have come, O King of the Lydians, to the land of the Greeks to be instructed in their manners and pursuits. And I am not even in quest of gold, but am well content to return to Scythia a better man. At all events here I am in Sardis, being greatly desirous of making your acquaintance.
8354. Anacharsis to Croesus
8355. To him is attributed the following letter:
8356. According to some he was the inventor of the anchor and the potter’s wheel.
8357. To the question, 
8358. If you cannot carry your liquor when you are young, boy, you will be a water carrier when you are old.
8359. The tongue.
8360. What among men is both good and bad?
8361.   

8362. Oil he called a drug which produced madness, because the athletes when they anoint themselves with it are maddened against each other. How is it, he asked, that the Greeks prohibit falsehood and yet obviously tell falsehoods in retail trade? Nor could he understand why at the beginning of their feasts they drink from small goblets and when they are 
8363. Well, granted that my country is a disgrace to me, you are a disgrace to your country.
8364. In which category, then, do you place those who are on the seas?
8365. Class. Rev.
8366. Cf.
8367. i.e.
8368. Those which have been hauled ashore.
8369. No, nor yet vines.
8370. Bridle speech, gluttony, and sensuality.
8371. full
8372.    

8373. It was a saying of his that the vine bore three kinds of grapes: the first of pleasure, the next of intoxication, and the third of disgust. He said he wondered why in Greece experts contend in the games and non-experts award the prizes. Being asked how one could avoid becoming a toper, he answered, 
8374. By keeping before your eyes the disgraceful exhibition made by the drunkard.
8375. Back from his travels Anacharsis came,
	
8376.   

8377. Here is my own epitaph upon him
8378. Anth. Pal.
8379. After a while Anacharsis returned to Scythia, where, owing to his enthusiasm for everything Greek, he was supposed to be subverting the national institutions, and was killed by his brother while they were out hunting together. When struck by the arrow he exclaimed, 
8380. My reputation carried me safe through Greece, but the envy it excited at home has been my ruin.
8381. The 
8382.  

8383. Sosicrates makes him come to Athens about the 47th Olympiad
8384. 591-588 B.C.
8385. Anacharsis the Scythian was the son of Gnurus and brother of Caduidas, king of Scythia. His mother was a Greek, and for that reason he spoke both languages. He wrote on the institutions of the Greeks and the Scythians, dealing with simplicity of life and military matters, a poem of 800 lines. So outspoken was he that he furnished occasion for a proverb, 
8386. To talk like a Scythian.
8387. Chapter 8. ANACHARSIS
8388.  

8389.   

8390. I made no answer to your herald; but I took him into a cornfield, and with a staff smote and cut off the over-grown ears of corn, while he accompanied me. And if you ask him what he heard and what he saw, he will give his message. And this is what you must do if you want to strengthen your absolute rule: put to death those among the citizens who are pre-eminent, whether they are hostile to you or not. For to an absolute ruler even a friend is an object of suspicion.
8391. Thrasybulus to Periander
8392. There is also a letter written to him by Thrasybulus, as follows:
8393. The murder of my wife was unintentional; but yours is deliberate guilt when you set my son’s heart against me. Either therefore put an end to my son’s harsh treatment, or I will revenge myself 
8394. Periander to Procles
8395.   

8396. Very grateful am I to the Pythian Apollo that I found you gathered together; and my letters will also bring you to Corinth, where, as you know, I will give you a thoroughly popular reception. I learn that last year you met in Sardis at the Lydian court. Do not hesitate therefore to come to me, the ruler of Corinth. The Corinthians will be pleased to see you coming to the house of Periander.
8397. Periander to the Wise Men
8398. A letter of his is extant:
8399. His apophthegm is: Practice makes perfect. He planned a canal across the Isthmus.
8400. Neanthes of Cyzicus also says this, and adds that they were near relations. And Aristotle
8401. Periander is mentioned in the 
8402. Protagoras
8403. Politics
8404.   

8405. Sotion and Heraclides and Pamphila in the fifth book of her 
8406. Commentaries
8407. He was the first who had a bodyguard and who changed his government into a tyranny, and he would let no one live in the town without his permission, as we know from Ephorus and Aristotle.
8408. Be moderate in prosperity, prudent in adversity. Be the same to your friends whether they are in prosperity or in adversity. Whatever agreement you make, stick to it. Betray no secret. Correct not only the offenders but also those who are on the point of offending.
8409.   

8410. To him belongs the maxim: Never do anything for money; leave gain to trades pursued for gain. He wrote a didactic poem of 2000 lines. He said that those tyrants who intend to be safe should make loyalty their bodyguard, not arms. When some one asked him why he was tyrant, he replied, 
8411. Because it is as dangerous to retire voluntarily as to be dispossessed.
8412. Grieve not because thou hast not gained thine end,
8413. Anth. Pal.
8414. In mother earth here Periander lies, 

8415.   

8416. There is a story that he did not wish the place where he was buried to be known, and to that end contrived the following device. He ordered two young men to go out at night by a certain road which he pointed out to them; they were to kill the man they met and bury him. He afterwards ordered four more to go in pursuit of the two, kill them and bury them; again, he dispatched a larger 
8417. Anth. Pal.
8418. Aristippus in the first book of his work 
8419. An unsavoury work by a scandal-monger who, to judge from the fragment of bk. iv., bore a grudge against philosophers, especially Academics: 
8420. Antigonos von Karystos
8421. cf.
8422. On the Luxury of the Ancients
8423.   

8424. Periander lost heart and died at the age of eighty. Sosicrates’ account is that he died fortyone years before Croesus, just before the 49th Olympiad.
8425. 584-580 b.c.
8426. And when well advanced in years he sent for his son to be his successor in the tyranny; but the Corcyraeans put him to death before he could set sail. Enraged at this, he dispatched the sons of the Corcyraeans to Alyattes that he might make eunuchs of them; but, when the ship touched at Samos, they took sanctuary in the temple of Hera, and were saved by the Samians.
8427.  

8428. When the son whose name was Lycophron grieved 
8429. Periander, the son of Cypselus, was born at Corinth, of the family of the Heraclidae. His wife was Lysida, whom he called Melissa. Her father was Procles, tyrant of Epidaurus, her mother Eristheneia, daughter of Aristocrates and sister of Aristodemus, who together reigned over nearly the whole of Arcadia, as stated by Heraclides of Pontus in his book 
8430. On Government.
8431. Chapter 7. PERIANDER (tyrant 625-585 B.C.)
8432.  

8433.   

8434. You have many friends and a home wherever you go; but the most suitable for Solon will, say I, be Lindus, which is governed by a democracy. The island lies on the high seas, and one who lives here has nothing to fear from Pisistratus. And friends from all parts will come to visit you.
8435. Cleobulus to Solon
8436. His apophthegm was: Moderation is best. And he wrote to Solon the following letter:
8437. He died at the ripe age of seventy; and the inscription over him is
8438. Here the wise Rhodian, Cleobulus, sleeps,
	
8439. Anth. Pal.
8440. When men are being bantered, do not laugh at their expense, or you will incur their hatred. Do not be arrogant in prosperity; if you fall into poverty, do not humble yourself. Know how to bear the changes of fortune with nobility.
8441. These moral precepts are similar to those of Stobaeus in the 
8442.  e.g.
8443. Florilegium
8444.   
	
8445. When anyone leaves his house, let him first inquire what he means to do; and on his return let him ask himself what he has effected. Moreover, he advised men to practise bodily exercise; to be listeners rather than talkers; to choose instruction rather than ignorance; to refrain from ill-omened words; to be friendly to virtue, hostile to vice; to shun injustice; to counsel the state for the best; not to be overcome by pleasure; to do nothing by violence; to educate their children; to put an end to enmity. Avoid being affectionate to your wife, or quarrelling with her, in the presence of strangers; for the one savours of folly, the other of madness. Never correct a servant over your wine, for you will be thought to be the worse for wine. Mate with one of your own rank; for if you take a wife who is superior to you, her kinsfolk will become your masters. 
8446.   

8447. Of his songs the most popular are: It is want of taste that reigns most widely among mortals and multitude of words; but due season will serve. Set your mind on something good. Do not become thoughtless or rude. He said that we ought to give our daughters to their husbands maidens in years but women in wisdom; thus signifying that girls need to be educated as well as boys. Further, that we should render a service to a friend to bind him closer to us, and to an enemy in order to make a friend of him. For we have to guard against the censure of friends and the intrigues of enemies. 
8448. The year.
8449. One sire there is, he has twelve sons, and each of these has twice thirty daughters different in feature; some of the daughters are white, the others again are black; they are immortal, and yet they all die.
8450.   

8451. The following riddle of Cleobulus is preserved in Pamphila’s collection
8452. Ecl. Phys.
8453. Anth. Pal.
8454. Who, if he trusts his wits, will praise Cleobulus the dweller at Lindus for opposing the strength of a column to everflowing rivers, the flowers of spring, the flame of the sun, and the golden moon and the eddies of the sea? But all things fall short of the might of the gods; even mortal hands break marble in pieces; this is a fool’s devising.
8455. Fr. 57 Bergk.
8456. and the sun shall rise and shine, and the bright moon, and rivers shall run and the sea wash the shore, here abiding on his tearsprinkled tomb I shall tell the passers-by—Midas is buried here.
8457.  

8458. The inscription on the tomb of Midas is said by some to be his
8459. I am a maiden of bronze and I rest upon Midas’s tomb. So long as water shall flow and tall trees grow, 
8460. Anth. Pal.
8461. Cleobulus, the son of Euagoras, was born at Lindus, but according to Duris he was a Carian. Some say that he traced his descent back to Heracles, that he was distinguished for strength and beauty, and was acquainted with Egyptian philosophy. He had a daughter Cleobuline, who composed riddles in hexameters; she is mentioned by Cratinus, who gives one of his plays her name, in the plural form Cleobulinae. He is also said to have rebuilt the temple of Athena which was founded by Danaus. 
8462. Chapter 6 CLEOBULUS (c 600 B.C.)
8463.  

8464.   
	
8465. Bias is mentioned by Hipponax as stated above, and Heraclitus, who is hard to please, bestows upon him especial praise in these words
8466. In Priene lived Bias, son of Teutames, a man of more consideration than any.
8467. P. 39 d, 112 b.
8468. Cherish wisdom. Admit the existence of the gods. If a man is unworthy, do not praise him because of his wealth. Gain your point by persuasion, not by force. Ascribe your good actions to the gods. Make wisdom your provision for the journey from youth to old age; for it is a more certain support than all other possessions.
8469.   

8470. Being asked 
8471. Making 
8472. Hope.
8473. What is sweet to men,
8474.   

8475. The growth of strength in man is nature’s work; but to set forth in speech the interests of one’s country is the gift of soul and reason. Even chance brings abundance of wealth to many. He also said that he who could not bear misfortune was truly unfortunate; that it is a disease of the soul to be enamoured of things impossible of attainment; and that we ought not to dwell upon the woes of others. Being asked what is difficult, he replied, 
8476. because you are asking questions about what does not concern you.
8477. I am silent,
8478. lest they hear and become aware that you are here in the ship.
8479. Peace!
8480. Nobly to endure a change for the worse.
8481.   

8482. He wrote a poem of 2000 lines on Ionia and the manner of rendering it prosperous. Of his songs the most popular is the following: 

8483. Find favour with all the citizens . . . 
	
8484. The city gave him a magnificent funeral and inscribed on his tomb
8485. Here Bias rests. A quiet death laid low 

8486. Anth. Pal.
8487. Here Bias of Priene lies, whose name

8488. Anth. Pal.
8489.   

8490. This was the manner of his death. He had been pleading in defence of some client in spite of his great age. When he had finished speaking, he reclined his head on his grandson’s bosom. The opposing counsel made a speech, the judges voted and gave their verdict in favour of the client of Bias, who, when the court rose, was found dead in his grandson’s arms. 
8491. It is also stated that he was a very effective pleader; but he was accustomed to use his powers of speech to a good end. Hence it is to this that Demodicus of Leros makes reference in the line:

8492. P. 79 Bergk; Strabo xiv. p. 636.
8493. More powerful in pleading causes than Bias of Priene.
8494. If you happen to be prosecuting a suit, plead as they do at Priene;
8495.   

8496. A story is told that, while Alyattes was besieging Priene, Bias fattened two mules and drove them into the camp, and that the king, when he saw them, was amazed at the good condition of the citizens actually extending to their beasts of burden. And he decided 
8497. Tell Alyattes, from me, to make his diet of onions,
8498. But others say that he dedicated it to Heracles in Thebes, since he was a descendant of the Thebans who had founded a colony at Priene; and this is the version of Phanodieus.
8499.  

8500. Bias, the son of Teutames, was born at Priene, and by Satyrus is placed at the head of the Seven Sages. Some make him of a wealthy family, but Duris says he was a labourer living in the house. Phanodicus relates that he ransomed certain Messenian maidens captured in war and brought them up as his daughters, gave them dowries, and restored them to their fathers in Messenia. In course of time, as has been already related, the bronze tripod with the inscription 
8501. To him that is wise
8502. Chapter 5. BIAS (c. 570 B.C.)
8503.  

8504.   

8505. You bid me come to Lydia in order to see your prosperity: but without seeing it I can well believe that the son of Alyattes is the most opulent of kings. There will be no advantage to me in a journey to 
8506. Pittacus to Croesus
8507. The following short letter is ascribed to him:
8508. Alcaeus nicknamed him 
8509. χειράς
8510. Chilblains,
8511. σάραπος
8512. σαράπους
8513. The advice seems to have been prompted by his situation. For he had married a wife superior in birth to himself: she was the sister of Draco, the son of Penthilus, and she treated him with great haughtiness.
8514.   

8515. A stranger of Atarneus thus inquired of Pittacus, the son of Hyrrhadius:

8516. Keep to your own sphere.
8517. Follow in their track,
8518. See there, yonder boys will tell you the whole tale.
8519.   

8520. To return to the Sage: the story goes that a young man took counsel with him about marriage, and received this answer, as given by Callimachus in his Epigrams
8521. Anth. Pal.
8522. There was another Pittacus, a legislator, as is stated by Favorinus in the first book of his 
8523. Men of the Same Name
8524. Memorabilia
8525. He was flourishing about the 42nd Olympiad. He died in the archonship of Aristomenes, in the third year of the 52nd Olympiad,
8526. Know thine opportunity.
8527. Here holy Lesbos, with a mother’s woe, 

8528. Anth. Plan.
8529. 570b.c.
8530. He also wrote poems in elegiac metre, some 600 lines, and a prose work 
8531. On Laws
8532.  

8533. Of his songs the most popular is this:

8534. With bow and well-stored quiver

8535. and of courageous men to deal with them when they have arisen.
8536.   

8537. Plato also cites him in the 
8538. before difficulties arise, to provide against their arising; 
8539. It is the part of prudent men,
8540. The sea.
8541. Untrustworthy?
8542. The earth.
8543. Trustworthy?
8544. The future.
8545. Obscure?
8546. Time.
8547. What is agreeable?
8548. If you seek too carefully, you will never find him.
8549. The rule of the shifting wood,
8550. To do well the work in hand.
8551. Office shows the man.
8552. Even the gods do not fight against necessity.
8553. 345d.
8554. Protagoras
8555.   

8556. Among the laws which he made is one providing that for any offence committed in a state of intoxication the penalty should be doubled; his object was to discourage drunkenness, wine being abundant in the island. One of his sayings is, 
8557. Pittacus’s maxim, 
8558. Truly to become a virtuous man is hard.
8559. It is hard to be good,
8560. Pamphila in the second book of her 
8561. Mercy is better than vengeance.
8562. It is better to pardon now than to repent later.
8563. Memorabilia
8564.   

8565. At the time, however, the people of Mitylene honoured Pittacus extravagantly and entrusted him with the government. He ruled for ten years and brought the constitution into order, and then laid down his office. He lived another ten years after his abdication and received from the people of Mitylene a grant of land, which he dedicated as sacred domain; and it bears his name to this day Sosicrates relates that he cut off a small portion for himself and pronounced the half to be more than the whole. Furthermore, he declined an offer of money made him by Croesus, saying that he had twice as much as he wanted; for his brother had died without issue and he had inherited his estate.
8566.  

8567. Pittacus was the son of Hyrrhadius and a native of Mitylene. Duris calls his father a Thracian. Aided by the brothers of Alcaeus he overthrew 
8568. Chronology,
8569. Chapter 4. PITTACUS (c. 600B.C.)
8570.  

8571.   

8572. You tell me of an expedition against foreign enemies, in which you yourself will take the field. In my opinion affairs at home are not too safe for an absolute ruler; and I deem the tyrant happy who dies a natural death in his own house.
8573. Chilon to Periander
8574. Give a pledge, and suffer for it.
8575. Here Chilon stands, of Sparta’s warrior race,

8576. Anth. Pal.
8577. I praise thee, Pollux, for that Chilon’s son 

8578.   

8579. I have written an epitaph on him also, which runs as follows
8580. Anth. Pal.
8581. He was a man of few words; hence Aristagoras of Miletus calls this style of speaking Chilonean. . . . is of Branchus, founder of the temple at Branchidae. Chilon was an old man about the 52nd Olympiad, when Aesop the fabulist was flourishing. According 
8582. And this was a wise warning; for Demaratus, when an exile from Sparta, advised Xerxes to anchor his fleet off the island; and if Xerxes had taken the advice Greece would have been conquered. Later, in the Peloponnesian war, Nicias reduced the island and placed an Athenian garrison there, and did the Lacedaemonians much mischief.
8583.   

8584. He became very famous in Greece by his warning about the island of Cythera off the Laconian coast. For, becoming acquainted with the nature of the island, he exclaimed: 
8585. Would it had never been placed there, or else had been sunk in the depths of the sea.
8586. Of his songs the most popular is the following: 
8587. By the whetstone gold is tried, giving manifest proof; and by gold is the mind of good and evil men brought to the test.
8588.   

8589. Not to abuse our neighbours, for if you do, things will be said about you which you will regret. Do not use threats to any one; for that is womanish. Be more ready to visit friends in adversity than in prosperity. Do not make an extravagant marriage. 
8590. De mortuis nil nisi bonum.
8591.   

8592. The tale is also told that he inquired of Aesop what Zeus was doing and received the answer: 
8593. To keep a secret, to employ leisure well, to be able to bear an injury.
8594. In good hope.
8595. He is humbling the proud and exalting the humble.
8596.  

8597. As Herodotus relates in his first Book, when Hippocrates was sacrificing at Olympia and his cauldrons boiled of their own accord, it was Chilon who advised him not to marry, or, if he had a wife, to divorce her and disown his children. 
8598. Chilon, son of Damagetas, was a Lacedaemonian. He wrote a poem in elegiac metre some 200 lines in length; and he declared that the excellence of a man is to divine the future so far as it can be grasped by reason. When his brother grumbled that he was not made ephor as Chilon was, the latter replied, 
8599. There seems to be some confusion in these extracts. Possibly Diogenes Laertius found among his materials some such note as this: 
8600. πρῶτος ἔφορος
8601. Χίλων τῶν ἑπτὰ σοφῶν πρῶτος ἔφορος,
8602. I know how to submit to injustice and you do not.
8603. Chapter 3. CHILON (c. 560B.C.)
8604.  

8605.   
	
8606. I admire you for your kindness to me; and, by Athena, if I had not been anxious before all things to live in a democracy, I would rather have fixed my abode in your palace than at Athens, where Pisistratus is setting up a rule of violence. But in truth to live in a place where all have equal rights is more to my liking. However, I will come and see you, for I am eager to make your acquaintance.
8607. Solon to Croesus
8608. You are, I admit, of all tyrants the best; but I see that it is not well for me to return to Athens. I gave the Athenians equality of civil rights; I refused to become tyrant when I had the opportunity; how then could I escape censure if I were now to return and set my approval on all that you are doing?
8609.  
	
8610. I am sure that I shall suffer no harm at your hands; for before you became tyrant I was your 
8611. Solon to Pisistratus
8612. He began by being a popular leader; his next step was to inflict wounds on himself and appear before the court of the Heliaea, crying out that these wounds had been inflicted by his enemies; and he requested them to give him a guard of 400 young men. And the people without listening to me granted him the men, who were armed with clubs. And after that he destroyed the democracy. It was in vain that I sought to free the poor amongst the Athenians from their condition of serfdom, if now they are all the slaves of one master, Pisistratus.
8613.   

8614. Nor are my laws nor all my enactments any better; but the popular leaders did the commonwealth harm by permitting licence, and could not hinder Pisistratus from setting up a tyranny. And, when I warned them, they would not believe me. He found more credit when he flattered the people than I when I told them the truth. I laid my arms down before the generals’ quarters and told the people that I was wiser than those who did not see that Pisistratus was aiming at tyranny, and more courageous than those who shrank from resisting him. They, however, denounced Solon as mad. And at last I protested: 
8615. My country, I, Solon, am ready to defend thee by word and deed; but some of my countrymen think me mad. Wherefore I will go forth out of their midst as the sole opponent of Pisistratus; and let them, if they like, become his bodyguard.
8616.   

8617. It seems that after all I was not to confer much benefit on Athenians by my laws, any more than you by purifying the city. For religion and legislation are not sufficient in themselves to benefit cities; it can only be done by those who lead the multitude in any direction they choose. And so, if things are going well, religion and legislation are beneficial; if not, they are of no avail.
8618. Solon to Epimenides
8619. You tell me that many are plotting against you. You must lose no time if you want to get rid of them all. A conspirator against you might arise from a quite unexpected quarter, say, one who had fears for his personal safety or one who disliked your timorous dread of anything and everything. He would earn the gratitude of the city who found out that you had no suspicion. The best course would be to resign power, and so be quit of the reproach. But if you must at all hazards remain tyrant, endeavour to make your mercenary force stronger than the forces of the city. Then you have no one to fear, and need not banish any one.
8620. Solon to Periander
8621.   

8622. The following letters are attributed to Solon:
8623. It is said that he was the author of the apophthegm 
8624. That is why I weep, because it is of no avail.
8625. It is all of no avail,
8626. Memorabilia,
8627. Ne quid nimis.
8628. Nothing too much,
8629. An epigram of my own is also contained in the collection of 
8630. Far Cyprian fire his body burnt; his bones,
	
8631. Anth. Pal.
8632. Epigrams in Various Metres
8633.   

8634. He flourished, according to Sosicrates, about the 46th Olympiad, in the third year of which he was archon at Athens
8635. This is my island home; my dust, men say,

8636. Fr. 5 Meineke, 
8637. C.G.F.
8638. The Chirons
8639. 594 b.c.
8640. His statue has the following inscription
8641. At Salamis, which crushed the Persian might,

8642. Anth. Pal.
8643.   

8644. He is undoubtedly the author of the laws which bear his name; of speeches, and of poems in elegiac metre, namely, counsels addressed to himself, on Salamis and on the Athenian constitution, five thousand lines in all, not to mention poems in iambic metre and epodes.
8645. and to have replied thus
8646. Watch every man and see whether, hiding hatred in his 
8647. Fr. 42 Bergk.
8648. Oh take a friend’s suggestion, blot the line, 

8649. Fr. 20 Bergk.
8650.   

8651. When therefore Pisistratus appeared with self-inflicted wounds, Solon said, 
8652. Would that by no disease, no cares opprest,

8653. Philosophic Sects
8654. This comes from acting tragedies.
8655.   

8656. He used to say that those who had influence with tyrants were like the pebbles employed in calculations; for, as each of the pebbles represented now a large and now a small number, so the tyrants would treat each one of those about them at one time as great and famous, at another as of no account. On being asked why he had not framed any law against parricide, 
8657. Wealth breeds satiety, satiety outrage.
8658. If it caused as much resentment in those who are not its victims as in those who are,
8659.   

8660. One of his sayings is: Speech is the mirror of action; and another that the strongest and most capable is king. He compared laws to spiders’ webs, which stand firm when any light and yielding object falls upon them, while a larger thing breaks through them and makes off. Secrecy he called the seal of speech, and occasion the seal of secrecy. 
8661. Solon was the first to call the 30th day of the month the Old-and-New day, and to institute meetings of the nine archons for private conference, as stated by Apollodorus in the second book of his work 
8662. On Legislators.
8663.  

8664. He has provided that the public recitations of Homer shall follow in fixed order
8665. Iliad
8666. Those who dwelt at Athens ...
8667. Megarian History,
8668. Or 
8669. ἐξ ὑπολήψεως ἐφεξῆς.
8670. Hipparchus
8671. ἐξ ὑποδοχῆς.
8672. in succession,
8673. Furthermore, that no engraver of seals should be allowed to retain an impression of the ring which he has sold, and that the penalty for depriving a one-eyed man of his single eye should be the loss of the offender’s two eyes. A deposit shall not be removed except by the 
8674.  

8675. The effect of this was that many strove to acquit themselves as gallant soldiers in battle, like Polyzelus, Cynegirus, Callimachus and all who fought at Marathon; or again like Harmodius and Aristogiton, and Miltiades and thousands more. Athletes, on the other hand, incur heavy costs while in training, do harm when successful, and are crowned for a victory over their country rather than over their rivals, and when they grow old they, in the words of Euripides,
8676. This censure of athletes recurs Diod. Sic. ix. 2. 3 f. It was probably a commonplace 
8677. κεφάλαιον
8678. Are worn threadbare, cloaks that have lost the nap;
8679. Eur.
8680. 2
8681. T.G.F.
8682. Autolycus
8683.  

8684. He seems to have enacted some admirable laws; for instance, if any man neglects to provide for his parents, he shall be disfranchised; moreover there is a similar penalty for the spendthrift who runs through his patrimony. Again, not to have a settled 
8685. So far Pisistratus. To return to Solon: one of his sayings is that 70 years are the term of man’s life.
8686.  

8687. I do not blame you for disclosing my designs; you acted from loyalty to the city, not through any enmity to me, and further, in ignorance of the sort of rule which I was going to establish; since, if you had known, you would perhaps have tolerated me and not gone into exile. Wherefore return home, trusting my word, though it be not sworn, that Solon will suffer no harm from Pisistratus. For neither has any other enemy of mine suffered; of that you may be sure. And if you choose to become one of my friends, you will rank with the foremost, for I see no trace of treachery in you, nothing to excite mistrust; or if you wish to live at Athens on other terms, you have my permission. But do not on my account sever yourself from your country.
8688.  

8689. I am not the only man who has aimed at a tyranny in Greece, nor am I, a descendant of Codrus, unfitted for the part. That is, I resume the privileges which the Athenians swore to confer upon Codrus and his family, although later they took them away. In everything else I commit no offence against God or man; but I leave to the Athenians the management 
8690. Pisistratus to Solon
8691.  

8692. Thus Solon. After he had gone into exile Pisistratus wrote to him as follows:
8693. If ye have suffered sadly through your own wickedness, lay not the blame for this upon the gods. For it is you yourselves who gave pledges to your foes and made them great; this is why you bear the brand of slavery. Every one of you treadeth in the footsteps of the fox, yet in the mass ye have little sense. Ye look to the speech and fair words of a flatterer, paying no regard to any practical result.
8694.  

8695. There is a story that Croesus in magnificent array sat himself down on his throne and asked Solon if he had ever seen anything more beautiful. 
8696. Fr. 11 Bergk.
8697. solecize.
8698. cocks and pheasants and peacocks; for they shine in nature’s colours, which are ten thousand times more beautiful.
8699. Yes,
8700.  

8701. When Pisistratus was already established, Solon, unable to move the people, piled his arms in front of the generals’ quarters, and exclaimed, 
8702. Tellus of Athens, and Cleobis and Biton,
8703. Whom do you consider happy?
8704. My country, I have served thee with my word and sword!
8705. That he foresaw the tyranny of Pisistratus is proved by a passage from a poem of his
8706. On splendid lightning thunder follows straight,

8707. Fr. 9 Bergk.
8708.  

8709. Thereafter the people looked up to him, and 
8710. A little while, and the event will show

8711. Fr. 10 Bergk.
8712. Men of Athens, I am wiser than some of you and more courageous than others: wiser than those who fail to understand the plot of Pisistratus, more courageous than those who, though they see through it, keep silence through fear.
8713.  

8714. And lest it should be thought that he had acquired Salamis by force only and not of right, he opened certain graves and showed that the dead were buried with their faces to the east, as was the custom of burial among the Athenians; further, that the tombs themselves faced the east,
8715. And fixed their station next the Athenian bands.
8716. Ajax twelve ships from Salamis commands,
8717. Il.
8718. If these words are pressed, they contradict the precise statement in Plutarch’s 
8719. sq.
8720. Classical Review
8721. Early Age of Greece
8722. Var. Hist.
8723. cf.
8724. Life of Solon
8725.  

8726. These were the lines which did more than anything else to inflame the Athenians
8727. Then let us fight for Salamis and fair fame, 

8728. Ib.
8729. Would I were citizen of some mean isle
	
8730. An Attic slave who gave up Salamis
8731. Who is this?
8732. Fr. 2 Bergk.
8733.  

8734. His greatest service was this: Megara and Athens laid rival claims to his birthplace Salamis, and after many defeats the Athenians passed a decree punishing with death any man who should propose a renewal of the Salaminian war. Solon, feigning madness, rushed into the Agora with a garland on his head; there he had his poem on Salamis read to 
8735.  

8736. He next went on to frame the rest of his laws, which would take time to enumerate, and inscribed them on the revolving pillars.
8737. Solon, the son of Execestides, was born at Salamis. His first achievement was the 
8738. σεισάχθεια,
8739. σεισάχθεια
8740. Chapter 2. SOLON (archon 594 B.C.)
8741.  

8742. 

8743. If you leave Athens, it seems to me that you could most conveniently set up your abode at Miletus, which is an Athenian colony; for there you incur no risk. If you are vexed at the thought that we are governed by a tyrant, hating as you do all absolute rulers, you would at least enjoy the society of your friends. Bias wrote inviting you to Priene; and if you prefer the town of Priene for a residence, I myself will come and live with you.
8744. Thales to Solon
8745. You, however, are so fond of home that you seldom visit Ionia and have no longing to see strangers, but, as I hope, apply yourself to one thing, namely writing, while we, who never write anything, travel all over Hellas and Asia.
8746. 

8747. I hear that you intend to be the first Ionian to expound theology to the Greeks. And perhaps it was a wise decision to make the book common property without taking advice, instead of entrusting it to any particular persons whatsoever, a course which has no advantages. However, if it would give you any pleasure, I am quite willing to discuss the subject of your book with you; and if you bid me come to Syros I will do so. For surely Solon of Athens and I would scarcely be sane if, after having sailed to Crete to pursue our inquiries there, and to Egypt to confer with the priests and astronomers, we hesitated to come to you. For Solon too will come, with your permission. 
8748. Thales to Pherecydes
8749. 	
	
8750. Here follow the extant letters of Thales.
8751. Hermippus in his work 
8752. List of Philosophers
8753. On the Sages
8754. 

8755.  Their utterances are variously reported, and are attributed now to one now to the other, for instance the following
8756. Protagoras
8757. Chilon of Lacedaemon’s words are true: 

8758. Anth. Plan.
8759. 

8760. This seems the proper place for a general notice of the Seven Sages, of whom we have such accounts as the following. Damon of Cyrene in his 
8761. The opinion of Dicaearchus thus expressed is correct. With the exception of Thales, no one whose life is contained in Book I. has any claim to be styled a philosopher. The tradition of the Seven Wise Men and of their meeting at some court, whether of a native tyrant like Periander or of a foreign prince like Croesus, was used by Plato (
8762. e.g.
8763. Protag.
8764. History of the Philosophers
8765. To him belongs the proverb 
8766. Successions of Philosophers
8767. Know thyself,
8768. 

8769. Thales the Sage died as he was watching an athletic contest from heat, thirst, and the weakness incident to advanced age. And the inscription on his tomb is
8770. As Thales watched the games one festal day

8771. In plain prose: 
8772. As the wise Thales was one day watching the contest of the racers, thou, O Sun-god, O Zeus, didst snatch him from the stadium. I praise thee for removing him to be near thee; for verily the old man could no more discern the stars from earth.
8773. Anth. Pal.
8774. Epigrams in Various Metres
8775. Here in a narrow tomb great Thales lies; 

8776. Anth. Pal.
8777. 

8778. There have lived five other men who bore the name of Thales, as enumerated by Demetrius of Magnesia in his 
8779. 5. An obscure person in more recent times who is mentioned by Dionysius in his 
8780. Critical Writings.
8781. 4. A person mentioned by Duris in his work 
8782. On Painting.
8783. 3. A contemporary of Hesiod, Homer and Lycurgus, in very early times.
8784. 2. A painter of Sicyon, of great gifts.
8785. 1. A rhetorician of Callatia, with an affected style.
8786. Dictionary of Men of the Same Name:
8787. He died at the age of 78 (or, according to Sosicrates, of 90 years); for he died in the 58th Olympiad, being contemporary with Croesus, whom he undertook to take across the Halys without building a bridge, by diverting the river.
8788. 

8789. Apollodorus in his 
8790. Chronology
8791. Whatever provision thou hast made for thy parents, the same must thou expect from thy children.
8792. Let not idle words prejudice thee against those who have shared thy confidence.
8793. Shun ill-gotten gains,
8794. He who has a healthy body, a resourceful mind and a docile nature.
8795. What man is happy?
8796. 

8797. To the question which is older, day or night, he replied: 
8798. By refraining from doing what we blame in others.
8799. How shall we lead the best and most righteous life?
8800. If he should see his enemies in worse plight.
8801. How can one best bear adversity?
8802. An aged tyrant.
8803. That which has neither beginning nor end.
8804. What is the divine?
8805. Success.
8806. What is most pleasant?
8807. To give advice to another.
8808. What is easy?
8809. To know oneself.
8810. nor yet an evil thought.
8811. No,
8812. Night is the older by one day.
8813. 

8814. Here too are certain current apophthegms assigned to him:

8815. there is no difference.
8816. Because,
8817. do you not die?
8818. Why then,
8819. Of all things that are, the most ancient is God, for he is uncreated.

8820. Of songs still sung these verses belong to him:

8821. Many words do not declare an understanding heart.

8822. 

8823. His writings are said by Lobon of Argos to have run to some two hundred lines. His statue is said to bear this inscription
8824. Pride of Miletus and Ionian lands,

8825. Anth. Pal.
8826. It is said that once, when he was taken out of doors by an old woman in order that he might observe the stars, he fell into a ditch, and his cry for help drew from the old woman the retort, 
8827. Thales among the Seven the sage astronomer.
8828. Fr. 23 Diels.
8829. Silli
8830. How can you expect to know all about the heavens, Thales, when you cannot even see what is just before your feet?
8831. 

8832. Hermippus in his 
8833. first, that I was born a human being and not one of the brutes; next, that I was born a man and not a woman; thirdly, a Greek and not a barbarian.
8834. Lives
8835. The oracle which the Coans received was on this wise:

8836. Who shall possess the tripod?
8837. Hephaestus cast the tripod in the sea; 

8838. 

8839. There is yet another version, that it was the work of Hephaestus presented by the god to Pelops on his marriage. Thence it passed to Menelaus and was carried off by Paris along with Helen and was thrown by her into the Coan sea, for she said it would be a cause of strife. In process of time certain people of Lebedus, having purchased a catch of fish thereabouts, obtained possession of the tripod, and, quarrelling with the fishermen about it, put in to Cos, and, when they could not settle the dispute, reported the fact to Miletus, their mother-city. The Milesians, when their embassies were disregarded, made war upon Cos; many fell on both sides, and an oracle pronounced that the tripod 
8840.  for what reason shall be explained in the life of Bias.
8841. 

8842. Aristodemus is mentioned by Alcaeus thus
8843. Surely no witless word was this of the Spartan, I deem,

8844. Wealth is the worth of a man; and poverty void of esteem.
8845. Fr. 49 Bergk; 
8846. Isthm.
8847. Schol.
8848. cf.
8849.  

8850. The story told by Andron
8851. The Tripod
8852. Andron of Ephesus (§119) is known to have written in the life-time (or at least before the death) of Theopompus, who is accused of having plagiarized from 
8853. Praep. Ev.
8854. The Tripod
8855. Chilon laid the question 
8856. Anth. Plan.
8857. Myson.
8858. Who is a wiser man than I?
8859. 

8860. But Eudoxus of Cnidos and Euanthes of Miletus agree that a certain man who was a friend of Croesus received from the king a golden goblet in order to bestow it upon the wisest of the Greeks; this man gave it to Thales, and from him it passed to others and so to Chilon.
8861. And he sent it 
8862. Legends.
8863. On Achilles,
8864. Thales the Milesian, son of Examyas [dedicates this] to Delphinian Apollo after twice winning the prize from all the Greeks.
8865. Lord of the folk of Neleus’ line, 

8866. 

8867.  Certain Ionian youths having purchased of the Milesian fishermen their catch of fish, a dispute arose over the tripod which had formed part of the catch. Finally the Milesians referred the question to Delphi, and the god gave an oracle in this form
8868. should be given to him who had done most good by his wisdom.
8869. Although disguised as Leandrius, the writer meant is Maeandrius, who is known (
8870. etg.
8871. Inscr. Gr.
8872. Iambics
8873. Who shall possess the tripod? Thus replies
	
8874. Or in prose: 
8875. Offspring of Miletus, do you ask Phoebus concerning the tripod? Whoso in wisdom is of all the first, to him the tripod I adjudge.
8876. Whosoever is most wise.
8877. Anth. Plan.
8878.  

8879. The well-known story of the tripod found by the fishermen and sent by the people of Miletus to all the Wise Men in succession runs as follows. 
8880. He had no instructor, except that he went to Egypt and spent some time with the priests there. Hieronymus informs us that he measured the height of the pyramids by the shadow they cast, taking the observation at the hour when our shadow is of the same length as ourselves. He lived, as Minyas relates, with Thrasybulus, the tyrant of Miletus.
8881. His doctrine was that water is the universal primary substance, and that the world is animate and full of divinities. He is said to have discovered 
8882. 

8883. Some authorities say that he married and had a son Cybisthus; others that he remained unmarried and adopted his sister’s son, and that when he was asked why he had no children of his own he replied 
8884. Because, having created a monopoly, he could charge what he pleased. See Aristotle’s version of the story, 
8885. Pol.
8886. Scattered Notes
8887. because he loved children.
8888. 

8889. Thales is also credited with having given excellent advice on political matters. For instance, when Croesus sent to Miletus offering terms of alliance, he frustrated the plan; and this proved the salvation of the city when Cyrus obtained the victory. Heraclides makes Thales himself
8890. Namely, in a dialogue. 
8891. Cf.
8892. Others tell this tale of Pythagoras, amongst them Apollodorus the arithmetician. (It was Pythagoras who developed to their furthest extent the discoveries attributed by Callimachus in his 
8893. γραμμαί,
8894. i.e.
8895. scalene triangles
8896. Iambics
8897. 

8898. Aristotle
8899. De anima
8900. And some, including Choerilus the poet, declare that he was the first to maintain the immortality of the soul. He was the first to determine the sun’s course from solstice to solstice, and according to some the first to declare the size of the sun to be one seven hundred and twentieth part of the solar circle, and the size of the moon to be the same fraction of the lunar circle. He was the first to give the last day of the month the name of Thirtieth, and the first, some say, to discuss physical problems.
8901. 

8902. After engaging in politics he became a student of nature. According to some he left nothing in writing; for the 
8903. History of Astronomy.
8904. See Sir T. L. Heath, 
8905. Aristarchus of Samos
8906. On the Equinox
8907. On the Solstice
8908. Who first of men the course made plain
	
8909. Greek mariners steered by the Great Bear, the Phoenicians by the Little Bear, as Ovid states, 
8910. Tristia
8911. Iambics
8912. In Phys.
8913. Cf.
8914. Nautical Astronomy
8915.  

8916. Herodotus, Duris, and Democritus are agreed that Thales was the son of Examyas and Cleobulina, and belonged to the Thelidae
8917. List of Archons.
8918. 582 b.c.
8919. Nelidac, if Bywater’s emendation is correct.
8920. Chapter 1. THALES (floruit circa 585 B.C., the date of the eclipse)
8921.  

8922. 
		
8923. It remains to speak of the philosophers themselves, and in the first place of Thales.
8924. One word more: not long ago an Eclectic school was introduced by Potamo of Alexandria,
8925. Elements of Philosophy,
8926. Certainly not the same as the person mentioned by Porphyry in his 
8927. πρὸ ὀλίγου.
8928. αἵρεσις
8929. not long ago
8930. Ποτάμων Ἀλ.
8931. s.v.
8932. Life of Plotinus,
8933.  
		
8934. He passes over the Cynic, Elian, and Dialectical schools; for as to the Pyrrhonians, so indefinite are their conclusions that hardly any authorities allow them to be a sect; some allow their claim in certain respects, but not in others. It would seem, however, that they are a sect, for we use the term of those who in their attitude to appearance follow or seem to follow some principle; and on this ground we should be justified in calling the Sceptics a sect. But if we are to understand by 
8935. i.e.
8936. Pyrrh. Hyp.
8937. Cf.
8938. sect
8939.  
	
8940. Hippobotus in his work 
8941. The separation of the followers of Anniceris from the Cyrenaic school was made by the author whom Clement of Alexandria followed in ii. 130. This author may have been Antiochus of Ascalon. Strabo x. 837 
8942. Ἀννίκερις ὁ δοκῶν ἐπανορθῶσαι τὴν Κυρηναϊκὴν αἵρεσιν, καὶ παραγαγεῖν ἀντʼ αὐτῆς τὴν Ἀννικερείαν.
8943. s.f.
8944. On Philosophical Sects
8945. The founders of these schools were: of the Old Academy, Plato; of the Middle Academy, Arcesilaus; of the New Academy, Lacydes; of the Cyrenaic, Aristippus of Cyrene; of the Elian, Phaedo of Elis; of the Megarian, Euclides of Megara; of the Cynic, Antisthenes of Athens; of the Eretrian, Menedemus 
8946.  

8947. Philosophy has three parts, physics, ethics, and dialectic or logic. Physics is the part concerned with the universe and all that it contains; ethics that concerned with life and all that has to do with us; while the processes of reasoning employed by both form the province of dialectic. Physics flourished down to the time of Archelaus; ethics, as we have said, started with Socrates; while dialectic goes as far back as Zeno of Elea. In ethics there have been ten schools: the Academic, the Cyrenaic, the Elian, the Megarian, the Cynic, the Eretrian, the Dialectic, the Peripatetic, the Stoic, and the Epicurean.
8948.  

8949. Some schools took their name from cities, as the Elians and the Megarians, the Eretrians and the Cyrenaics; others from localities, as the Academics and the Stoics; others from incidental circumstances, as the Peripatetics; others again from derisive nicknames, as the Cynics; others from their temperaments, as the Eudaemonists or Happiness School; others from a conceit they entertained, as Truthlovers, Refutationists, and Reasoners from Analogy; others again from their teachers, as Socratics, Epicureans, and the like; some take the name of Physicists from their investigation of nature, others that of Moralists because they discuss morals; while those who are occupied with verbal jugglery are styled Dialecticians.
8950. 

8951. Philosophers may be divided into dogmatists and sceptics: all those who make assertions about things assuming that they can be known are dogmatists; while all who suspend their judgement on the ground that things are unknowable are sceptics. Again, some philosophers left writings behind them, while others wrote nothing at all, as was the case according to some authorities with Socrates, Stilpo, Philippus, Menedemus, Pyrrho, Theodorus, Carneades, Bryson; some add Pythagoras and Aristo of Chios, except that they wrote a few letters. Others wrote no more than one treatise each, as Melissus, Parmenides, Anaxagoras. Many works were written by Zeno, more by Xenophanes, more by Democritus, more by Aristotle, more by Epicurus, and still more by Chrysippus.
8952.  

8953. In the Italian school the order of succession is as follows: first Pherecydes, next Pythagoras, next his son Telauges, then Xenophanes, Parmenides,
8954. This succession (Pythagoras, Telauges, Xenophanes, Parmenides) does not exactly agree with what is said in the lives of Xenophanes and Parmenides, ix. 18, 21, where Parmenides, not Xenophanes, is made a pupil of the Pythagoreans. The arrangement followed in i. 12-15 treats the Italian school as a true succession, whereas in Book IX. many of them are regarded as sporadic thinkers, according to the view expressed in viii. 91.
8955. There is another which ends with Chrysippus, that is to say by passing from Socrates to Antisthenes, then to Diogenes the Cynic, Crates of Thebes, Zeno of Citium, Cleanthes, Chrysippus. And yet again another ends with Theophrastus; thus from Plato it passes to Aristotle, and from Aristotle to Theophrastus. In this manner the school of Ionia comes to an end.
8956.  

8957.  And the one school, that of Ionia, terminates with Clitomachus and Chrysippus and Theophrastus, that of Italy with Epicurus. The succession passes from Thales through Anaximander, Anaximenes, Anaxagoras, Archelaus, to Socrates, who introduced ethics or moral philosophy; from Socrates to his pupils the Socratics, and especially to Plato, the founder of the Old Academy; from Plato, through Speusippus and Xenocrates, the succession passes to Polemo, Crantor, and Crates, Arcesilaus, founder of the Middle Academy, Lacydes,
8958. See iv. 59-61, where Lacydes is made the founder of the New Academy, although other authorities, 
8959. s.v.
8960. sq.
8961. Ind. Acad.
8962. Pyrrh. Hyp.
8963. e.g.
8964.  

8965. But philosophy, the pursuit of wisdom, has had a twofold origin; it started with Anaximander on the one hand, with Pythagoras on the other. The former was a pupil of Thales, Pythagoras was taught by Pherecydes. The one school was called Ionian, because Thales, a Milesian and therefore an Ionian, instructed Anaximander; the other school was called Italian from Pythagoras, who worked for the most part in Italy. 
8966. The men who were commonly regarded as sages were the following: Thales, Solon, Periander, Cleobulus, Chilon, Bias, Pittacus. To these are added Anacharsis the Scythian, Myson of Chen, Pherecydes of Syros, Epimenides the Cretan; and by some even Pisistratus the tyrant. So much for the sages or wise men.
8967. Compare Clem. Alex. 
8968. Strom.
8969.  

8970. But the first to use the term, and to call himself a philosopher or lover of wisdom, was Pythagoras;
8971. Archilochi
8972. De mortua
8973. This is confirmed by Clement, 
8974. σοφός.
8975. σοφιστής
8976. Strom.
8977. Strom.
8978.  

8979.  They hold that the universe is created and perishable, and that it is spherical in shape. They say that the stars consist of fire, and that, according as the fire in them is mixed, so events happen upon earth; that the moon is eclipsed when it falls into the earth’s shadow; that the soul survives death and passes into other bodies; that rain is caused by change in the atmosphere; of all other phenomena they give physical explanations, as related by Hecataeus and Aristagoras. They also laid down laws on the subject of justice, which they ascribed to Hermes; and they deified those animals which are serviceable to man. They also claimed to have invented geometry, astronomy, and arithmetic. Thus much concerning the invention of philosophy.
8980.  

8981. The sun and the moon are gods bearing the names of Osiris and Isis respectively; they make use of the beetle, the dragon, the hawk, and other creatures as symbols of divinity, according to Manetho in his 
8982. On the Egyptian Philosophy.
8983. Epitome of Physical Doctrines
8984. The philosophy of the Egyptians is described as follows so far as relates to the gods and to justice. They say that matter was the first principle, next the four elements were derived from matter, and thus living things of every species were produced.
8985.  

8986. The last-named author says that according to the Magi men will live in a future life and be immortal, and that the world will endure through their invocations.
8987. On Education
8988. In this clause the word 
8989. sq.
8990. Early Zoroastrianism
8991. cf.
8992. ἐτικαλεῖσθαι
8993. ἐπίκλησις
8994. the things which are will continue to be through all their revolutions.
8995. περικυκλήσεσι
8996. ἐπικλήσεσι
8997. What exists now will exist hereafter under its own present name.
8998. ὀνόμασι
8999. ἐπικλήσεσι
9000.  
	
9001. With the art of magic they were wholly unacquainted, according to Aristotle in his 
9002. Philippica.
9003. Voyage round the World
9004. On Philosophy
9005. This popular etymology, though wide-spread, is erroneous, the true form of the prophet’s name being Zarathustra, almost certainly derived from 
9006. ib.
9007. op. cit.
9008. Cf.
9009. camel.
9010. ustra
9011. γέροντ-
9012. old
9013. zarath
9014. star-worshipper
9015. History
9016. Magicus
9017.  

9018. They hold discourse of justice, and deem it impious to practise cremation; but they see no impiety in marriage with a mother or daughter, as Sotion relates in his twenty-third book. Further, they practise divination and forecast the future, declaring that the gods appear to them in visible form. Moreover, they say that the air is full of shapes which stream forth like vapour and enter the eyes of keen-sighted seers. They prohibit personal ornament and the wearing of gold. Their dress is white, they make their bed on the ground, and their food is vegetables, cheese,
9019. Compare Pliny, 
9020. Early Zoroastrianism
9021. Spring butter is the ambrosia of the blessed
9022. Yasht
9023. cf.
9024. N.H.
9025.  

9026. But the advocates of the theory that philosophy took its rise among the barbarians go on to explain the different forms it assumed in different countries. As to the Gymnosophists and Druids we are told that they uttered their philosophy in riddles, bidding men to reverence the gods, to abstain from wrongdoing, and to practise courage. That the Gymnosophists 
9027.  

9028. But those who attribute its invention to barbarians bring forward Orpheus the Thracian, calling him a philosopher of whose antiquity there can be no doubt. Now, considering the sort of things he said about the gods, I hardly know whether he ought to be called a philosopher; for what are we to make of one who does not scruple to charge the gods with all human suffering, and even the foul crimes wrought by the tongue amongst a few of mankind? The story goes that he met his death at the hands of women; but according to the epitaph at Dium in Macedonia he was slain by a thunderbolt; it runs as follows
9029. Here have the Muses laid their minstrel true, 

9030. Anth. Plan.
9031.  

9032. Linus again was (so it is said) the son of Hermes and the Muse Urania. He composed a poem describing the creation of the world, the courses of the sun and moon, and the growth of animals and plants. His poem begins with the line:

9033. Here Theban Linus, whom Urania bore, 

9034. Anth. Pal.
9035. Time was when all things grew up at once;
9036.  

9037. These authors forget that the achievements which they attribute to the barbarians belong to the Greeks, with whom not merely philosophy but the human race itself began. For instance, Musaeus is claimed by Athens, Linus by Thebes. It is said that the former, the son of Eumolpus, was the first to compose a genealogy of the gods and to construct a sphere, and that he maintained that all things proceed from unity and are resolved again into unity. He died at Phalerum, and this is his epitaph
9038. Musaeus, to his sire Eumolpus dear,

9039. Anth. Pal.
9040.  

9041. The date of the Magians, beginning with Zoroaster the Persian, was 5000 years before the fall of Troy, as given by Hermodorus the Platonist in his work on mathematics; but Xanthus the Lydian reckons 6000 years from Zoroaster to the expedition of Xerxes, and after that event he places a long line of Magians in succession, bearing the names of Ostanas, Astrampsychos, Gobryas, and Pazatas, down to the conquest of Persia by Alexander.
9042. Hephaestus lived 48,863 years before Alexander of Macedon, and in the interval there occurred 373 solar and 832 lunar eclipses.
9043.  

9044. If we may believe the Egyptians, Hephaestus was the son of the Nile, and with him philosophy began, priests and prophets being its chief exponents. 
9045. There are some who say that the study of philosophy had its beginning among the barbarians. They urge that the Persians have had their Magi, the Babylonians or Assyrians their Chaldaeans, and the Indians their Gymnosophists; and among the Celts and Gauls there are the people called Druids or Holy Ones, for which they cite as authorities the 
9046. Succession of Philosophers.
9047. The alteration of the numeral from 23 to 13 is supported by what little we know of Sotion’s work. It was from a similar source that Clement of Alexandria must have taken what we find in 
9048. Strom.
9049. Magicus
9050. Prologue
9051. BOOK I
9052. 
		
9053. 

9054. unspecified file update or migration
9055. beta code versions of diogenes, greek and english. also combined the two volumes of each text (originally in incunabula/Diogenes[English|Greek][1|2].xml into one. still need to add sections for citation support
9056. student adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9057. student adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9058. student adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9059. student adding milestone numbers - ad
9060. student adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9061. adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9062. adding section numbers, putting foreign lang tags on footnotes - ad
9063. moved more texts around based on copyright status
9064. moved more xml files around based on copyright status
9065. file tagging modified to bring it into easier conformance with CTS
9066. moving Greg's work-in-progress on CTS-izing greco-roman collection texts to a Work directory 
9067. EpiDoc and CTS conversion and general header review.
9068. 
			
9069. 
				
9070. French
9071. Latin
9072. Greek
9073. English
9074. 
			
9075. 
				
9076. 
					
9077. This pointer pattern extracts book.
9078. 
					
9079. This pointer pattern extracts book and chapter.
9080. 
					
9081. This pointer pattern extracts book, chapter, and section.
9082. The following text is encoded in accordance with EpiDoc standards and with the CTS/CITE Architecture
9083. 
				
9084.  
9085. Data Entry
9086. 
			
9087. 
				
9088. 
					
9089. Internet Archive
9090. 
						
9091. Two volumes
9092. 
							
9093. 1925
9094. William Heinemann Ltd.
9095. London
9096. Harvard University Press
9097. Cambridge, MA
9098. R. D. Hicks
9099. Lives of Eminent Philosophers
9100. Diogenes Laertius
9101. 
				
9102. 
				
9103. Available under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License
9104. tlg0004.tlg001.perseus-eng2.xml
9105. 2009
9106. Perseus Digital Library Project
9107. Medford, MA
9108. Trustees of Tufts University
9109. November 1, 2005
9110. Kansas City Missouri
9111. Cultural Heritage Langauge Technologies
9112. 
				
9113. National Endowment for the Humanities Division of Preservation and Access
9114. 
				
9115. Rashmi Singhal
9116. Lisa Cerrato
9117. Bridget Almas
9118. Prepared under the supervision of
9119. Gregory Crane
9120. R. D. Hicks
9121. Diogenes Laertius
9122. Lives of Eminent Philosophers
